Title: Traditional SEO Isn't Dead. Here's What Changed
Video ID: -HyHpI7sqr8
Published: 2025-07-22T13:12:30Z
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-HyHpI7sqr8

---

So today I'm going to be showing you why classic SEO is critical for geo or generative engine optimization. So let's dive right into it. So first we need to talk about what actually happens when a large language model is trained. Okay. So there's two things that happen you know when you search inside of chat GBT or any large language model. either a you're going to see a response d a generated response directly to you as soon as you enter that query you get a response right and that means that it's directly pulling from the static corpus or its training data okay so an example of this is if we go in here and we look at what are the 48 laws of power we see here that it gives us an answer directly no search was conducted to answer this question which immediately tells us that the the model that's being used here already knows this information. Okay, so we know that for a fact. But on the opposite side of the spectrum, if we look at this, when we search best baseball cleats for 2025, we get a very different response here because it had to go to search to give us that answer because of the training cutoff. So the 03 model I think is sometime around 2024. So anything that is beyond 2024, it does not have the ability to give you a reliable answer. And so it has to go to search. Okay. Now this is very important to understand because it is how if you understand the mechanisms we can understand how to optimize. So the first one here is let's talk about how the the actual training data how it like what process does it go through and this is why it's a little bit different than traditional SEO. Okay. So this is basically the way that it works. This is oversimplification by the way extreme but this will give you a general idea of just roughly how these models work. Okay. So in essence, the the models or the companies that build these models, they go to a bunch of different sources and they extract a lot a lot of documents. Okay, so they go to the open web and this is common crawl. Uh and common crawl is just a a completely public database that anyone can scrape and it gets updated every single month. So the billions and billions of pages that it archives um in common crawl. Okay. So chat, GBT, OpenAI um and all these other platforms all use these different sources for their training material. Okay. So then what happens is they take these billions and billions of pages uh code and all kinds of other things and they go through this process of filtering. So it is not going to put billions of pages and it's not going to train on billions of pages and documents. What it's going to do is it's going to take all of those documents and it's going to put it through this very rigorous filtering process. Okay? And I'm not going to go through all of this, but basically there's kind of and this isn't even this is just kind of scratching the surface. These are kind of three really core things that do happen. The first one is just based on text quality. Okay? Okay. So, it's going to take all those documents and anything that's, you know, boilerplate, duplicate, uh, has poor readability, is super thin, um, all this stuff that we already know about a good website. Like, if it if it has any qualities that represent a, you know, a lowquality website, it's not going to make it through these filters. Okay? And I'll show you like exact percentages of how many pages actually make through this filtering layer, but this is very important. And so if you think about if we reverse this, if we want to have a good website, we want to do the opposite of a lot of these things. If we want to uh have any chance of getting our brand uh you know in the generated responses or trying to get cited, this is we cannot have any of this stuff going on on our site. Okay, very very simple stuff. Everyone knows this. If you're just generating AI content um without anything new, it is not going to likely perform very well and it will not make it through this filtering layer. In fact, there is an exact word that the LLM's use is called perplexity. Not the actual search engine perplexity. It's like the actual term that they use and in really simply just means uh if the content has low perplexity, which in essence just means low uniqueness. Okay, it just means that it's it's very predictable and the content could easily be generated by a large language model. It's not likely going to make it through this filter. High perplexity means that there's novelty in that text. It's it's the model is seeing things it hasn't seen before. It's seeing certain sentence structures it's not used to. Now, this could be because of poor grammar and spelling, but it could also be because the content is human written and it's written in a way that's much more natural than what the LLM would produce. You want that to be the case, right? And this is just, you know, why you need to have humans come in and actually edit your content. This is really, really important. Even if you're using AI content, this isn't a matter of quality, per se. The the LLM cannot measure true objective quality. They can't do that. But what they can do is they can look at the structure of the content, and if it isn't bringing anything new, uh, you're going to be in trouble because you're not going to make it through this filtering layer. Okay? So, this is all stuff you already you already know. Okay? And once again, these are all SEO principles that apply to training the models. Okay, so this is all stuff we already know. This part here is really fascinating. Okay, this is the domain whitelisting. All right, so with Google, which you know, if you've been doing SEO on Google for a very long time, we know that Google uses page rank and uses backlinks as one of its core variables for determining if a page is high quality. Okay, back links are votes for a page. backlinks or votes for a website. It's always been that way and it continues to be actually a very powerful signal and it's very important. The LLMs do not use page rank. Okay, they do not use page rank. So when all these domains come in um they're not it's not going through some sort of like page rank algorithm to determine you know what should be actually put into the training data. Instead, they use a very sneaky little method that actually mirrors page rank without having to use all the computation and algorithms to actually do that. So, to reduce their cost, it's actually, you know, it's kind of just silly how simple it is. Um, they literally just go to these open source lists of the top websites. So, you can see this here. Uh, you can actually go here. This is completely public. Um and you can see this is a these are the top domains on the internet. Top million domains. Okay. So you can go to this uh resource here. You can also go here once again another opensource uh of the you know 1 million domains as well from Amazon. And then you can also use the majestic million. Okay. It it's hard to say what plat you know what LLM's use. They're all different. But in general we know that they use these domains uh and and these domains go on their white list. Okay. So, if you're not on this white list, you're probably not going to get um prioritized in the training in the training set, right? Um and so also on top of it, if you're referenced in these million top million websites, if your brand is referenced on these websites, that's probably going to be a positive signal for you in, you know, once the training data is all set. Okay. So, very simply, we want to try to get links on these websites that are in the top 1 million. Simple as that. that it's it is literally that simple. You should try to get your brand mentioned on these websites if you want to influence the LLMs. Um, and more importantly, as a side note, you should try to get your your brand's website to be in this top, you know, top million. Okay? So, for example, if I put got seo.com in here, we'll see where it lands and it's, you know, uh, 133,000. Okay? So this is an asset that I have in my business that then I can leverage knowing that it is an influential piece to this LLM equation. Okay. So very simple. Your own website should be in here and we should also be trying to get links on relevant websites within this top 1 million list. Okay? Because we know that it's used in the training process. Okay? So domain whitelisting. There's also domain blacklisting. They blacklist a lot of domains too that have certain signals that they deem as low quality. Okay, so a little bit of both. So these are the two two primary filtering mechanisms so far. We have text quality and we have domain whitelisting. Okay, and then the next one is topic waiting. In other words, top topical authority like does your website cover this core topic with a high level of depth or is it just covering a lot of stuff kind of surface level. So right now is really really and it's been this way now for many years even before chat GBT came out but we should always be going a mile deep on our topics and not trying to cover a bunch of stuff like you want to build really really tight entity association meaning if you know you sell baseball cleat you want and you want your brand to be associated with baseball cleat. It's it's literally that simple. If you start talking about volleyball shoes now, you're starting to create weird entity associations and it's going to cause issues with the knowledge graph. So, you just really want to have it super clean, super obvious, and have zero ambiguity. That is the goal. Okay. Now, once this is all done, what happens here? Once again, gross oversimplification. There's more stuff here, but just to give you kind of some perspective, we have billions of documents that go into this initial filtering process. and only about 5% of them make it to what are you know is considered these quality gates. Okay, at this 5% mark. So we're talking very very little. This is a very aggressive filtering process that goes on to eventually get to the core uh training data set. Okay. Now I'll show you this. This is kind of like a a very basic math, you know, just to kind of represent this idea here. Okay. So um this is this is real data pulled from uh when they train GPT3 which is still a part of their you know their static corpus. So and this is just for common crawl. So this is how they basically sort through the common crawl documents. All right. So let's say there's a 100,000 docu this is these are not real numbers by the way. This is just a sample because the numbers are so enormous it would make your head hurt. Um but we're talking billions of documents you know. So, but basically what happens is what I just showed you is would be considered like a hard scrub. Okay? So, they're just going to get rid of basically everything. 95% of documents in stage one gone. They're not even going to make it past stage one. That means we're left with only 5,000 documents at this point. Now, once again, 5% 5% of documents make it to, you know, beyond stage one. Then they go through of those 5,000 documents, there's going to go through a quality process that's going to trim it even further. So about 50% are trimmed off of that. So now we're down to 25, you know, 2500 in this example. Okay? And then finally, what happens is of those 2500 documents, these get turned into, you know, push into a a token pool. Okay? A token is quite simply just uh splitting up of words. Okay? So like for example feed would probably be one token. The would be two tokens, token would be three tokens and pool would be four tokens. Sometimes they split up words as well that will uh so like they might split up like documents as two different tokens. That happens as well. So um but in general this gets turned from take turns documents into tokens. Okay. The technical side of this doesn't matter as much. It's more about the principle of this. And at the end of this, we're left with about, you know, 1% of the original tokens that will now be used during the training process. So, the reason I'm showing you this kind of, you know, feels pretty technical. The reason I'm showing you this is just to show you that once again, as far as, you know, the principles of good SEO still apply here. And the principles of good SEO have always been to create highquality content that's highly relevant and is unique. It has that information gain. It is unique. It isn't something that's just regurgitated by going to the top 10 of Google and just regurgitating what's already there. That's never been a good idea. And once again, this proves that it's still not a good idea even if you want to show, you know, show up in chat GBT or the LLM. Okay, so that principle has not changed as far as classic SEO and it likely will not. Okay, so just wanted to show you that. Now this is in regards to the static you know the the models that do not change once a model gets set for example if we look at you know uh 03 once this 03 model is set you cannot directly influence this this model it's done once that once that training data uh that that cutoff is set that's it now what we see here and when you search this is an enhanced generated response it's an enhancement So when when search is generated here and it goes out and uses um retrieval augmented generation, you know, rag for short, and it goes in to these sources and comes back and reprompts itself here. Um it's not training the model, the model stays the same, but this is just an enhancement on the existing model. And I'll show you why this matters. Okay, so we'll go down here and if I can figure out how to use Canva. Okay, here we go. So, this is really important to understand because it'll help you understand how you actually need to go about this this process here, which is very simply we're going to just kind of walk through the basics here. Chat GBT. You you go into chat GBT, you put your query in best baseball cleat. Okay. And what's going to happen is chat GBT very simple here. A lot's happening, but this is a simple simple thing here. Do I know the answer? based on my static corpus. If yes, it's going to respond. That's what we're seeing right here. Okay? So, it it it runs through its neural network and it knows the it knows and it just responds directly to the user. Okay? Very simple. If it doesn't know the answer, it's going to hallucinate the answer. That's an option. Sometimes it will do that. It will just straight up hallucinate if it's not sure. I'll give you a real quick example of this. All right. So this is actually, you know, a funny example because this is Google's new AI mode. Okay, so take a look at this. I ran this query through Google's AI mode, which is, is there data showing that people now trust chat GBT more than Google? Okay, and I did a period. I don't know why I did a period. It was really a question. And funny enough, you go in here and it looks like, you know, this is one thing the AI does. It always has conviction. Even when it's wrong, even when it makes things up, it will still have conviction. And we go in here and it says, "A recent report by HubSpot and Statista suggests that 73% of AI users trust Chat GB's answers more than Google search results. Come to find out after further research, like real research, not madeup research, uh this is not a real statistic. This study never even happened. This there there is no study that uh can be cited here. The only reason why this is here is because this posted about it specifically. Okay. So, if we can get it to load, you'll see here that it pulled, you can actually see where it pulled this socalled information from. And the thing is, uh, the AI is really, really bad at differentiating between real statistics and fake statistics. It doesn't know the difference. It it literally does not know. And this this website uh has like a DR of zero on HF. So it's not like this is a website that's like insanely trusted, right? There's not like a ton of signals going towards this website. And yet it still pulled this because it was enough to answer the question, right? And remember, it's going out when it when it in Google's AI mode is very different than traditional search. It's like check GBT where it goes out to Google search results and tries to find an answer, tries to find a snippet that it can come back and give you a a good response, right? Um, it's not built for accuracy or or, you know, true facts, right? It just is looking for whatever it can find to answer this question. And maybe it will change over time, but right now this is a perfect example of a straight straight hallucination, you know, misrepresentation, misinformation, what whatever you want to call it. It's wrong. It's just wrong. Okay? And so this is an example of what the AI can do. And this is why it's really important that it also uses the uh rag enhancement because if it doesn't use rag, it's just going to guess its way through that process. And it that that creates a lot of inaccuracy with these LLMs. So the reason why understanding RAG which is retrieval augmented generation, it's even hard for me to remember this acronym sometimes. Um the reason why it's really important is because the basis for RAG is it goes and searches on public search indexes. Okay. So depends on which LLM it is. There's some evidence right now that uh ChatGBT uses is starting to use Google search results a lot more, but it's been known for a while that it uses Bing because it has a relationship with Microsoft and Microsoft's an investor in Open AI. So that's been the case for a long time. Um Brave is the def, you know, seems to be the search engine that Claude uses. So when you compare Claude's citations, they seem to match Brave's search engine very closely. And Perplexity is pretty much known to use Bing and they also have their own kind of like search index. So the point is though it doesn't really make a difference as far as the indexes. What matters is that we're doing well in those indexes. And this is so so important. This is why you know traditional SEO matters for geo. And the reason is because of rag specifically but it's also because of the static training corpus as well. So it actually is for both reasons. You want to rank very well and you want to show up on the most critical website so that then when the next training set goes through you can get pushed into that training data you know training set but you also want it for real time like right now what's going to happen and when you have that rag enhancement the first thing that happens this is the crazy part is that only most studies and based on our internal studies as well uh when it goes and pulls citations which we're going to look at right These are all the citations that you know and by the way this is like right now this is probably not going to be forever. So I would take advantage of this but in the 03 model you can see exactly how it's reasoning through this process. You can see how it's searching. You can see the citations. There's a lot of information here that you can use for reverse engineering. Okay. But these citations, this is what it's using to to create this generated response in real time. It's going and searching in real time to enhance its prompts and ultimately give a uh more reliable response. Now keep in mind it is not a perfect response because theoretically it can go and retrieve results from search that are not accurate. That can happen. Okay. So it's not a this is not a perfect science by any means which means it can be influenced. Okay. And that's the job of a you know an optimizer right we're trying to influence these results. All right. So this is very important. Now this is in essence what happens as far as the process. Okay. Now the main thing I want to talk about now is what happens with this query fan out process. Okay. So what does that mean? So you get to see this happen in real time here in chat GBT. You can also see it happen in real time in uh Google's AI mode. But go ahead and open this up. And I want to show you this is kind of cool. So if you go into 03, you can literally see the exact queries that are being used. Now they don't you can't copy them, right? So if you try to copy these, you can't really do anything, but all you have to do is just rightclick and go to inspect. Okay, so we're going to do that and we're going to pull this over. H one second here. Okay, so now you can see here, if you see my screen, best baseball cleat 2025. That's the first query that it used to search. Now, do we know what search engine he used? Hard to say, right? No one knows for sure. But that is the query that it used. And if we know the queries that he uses, we should be optimizing for these queries on our website and across other platforms. Okay. Uh and that could also be YouTube as well. We're not talking about just our website, which is very important. Okay. Do this again. We'll just inspect this one as well. Same thing. We're going to see very longtail query that he uses. And as you can see, as it starts to build these different queries, this fanning out, you're going to see that they get more specific, more longtail. Um, and this is just giving us ammunition. This is giving us ideas that we need to start attacking these phrases so that we, you know, ultimately can influence the response and become a citation in here as well. The best of both worlds. All right. Now, here is what's interesting. So this is just a very small example I want to show you the I just pulled five out of that you know little prompt window and you can see how these you kind of change over time starting from the first prompt to the second one and it gets more specific towards like very very specific product um searches right now this is why keyword research is a very weird thing right now okay because traditional keyword research is what we're used to where we go go into the keyword research tool find the search volume use some qualifying metrics to pick keywords and then we create our pitch. Okay, pretty easy. But here's the problem. When you search stuff like this in traditional in traditional SEO tools, you're not going to find anything. You're not going to find any search volume. But this does not mean that there is not search volume. Okay? So we have to be careful though because what chat GBT is doing here and this is also what Google's AI mode is doing. It is not. These queries do not necessarily have demand. Okay? And this is what's tricky because these are what are considered synthetic queries. The AI is making these up. Okay? It's not pulling these from sort of some sort of database of knowledge that it has or search volume. It's literally just making them up. Okay? So, it doesn't mean that there is for sure quantifiable demand. However, it's pretty likely, right? It's pretty likely that there is some demand around these topics. Okay? So, you want to be going after these. Now, if you run these through, for example, Semrush, and nothing against Semrush, this is just it's a problem. When you start getting into longtail queries, this is what you're going to see, right? So, if you're still doing SEO the old way, and you just go into these tools, I'm only going to go after keywords that have search volume, you're going to be missing out on some stuff. You need to be attacking these queries. every single string that occurs through that process, you want to be tacking all of these. It's very very important. Okay, so that's the first part. Now, the next thing I want to show you is on the citation level. So, we go like and look here, like what are the types of websites that actually show up in, you know, in the in the citations. Okay? um because if we know what they tend to site, what they tend to use in their responses, we could, you know, theoretically reverse engineer that. So here's a couple examples. So in the cited domains here, you can see what I did is I pulled uh this is all data from Semrush. I extracted all this, did a batch analysis, and you can see here are all the domains that showed up in the citations. And here's a couple of things that are pretty obvious here. Number one, the median, not the average. The median authority score for these citations is 45. Now on Semrush, that's a lot. Like Semrush is a little more restrictive with its authority score compared to like let's say HS domain rating. But median right here is a 45. Meaning the websites that get referenced in this small data set, and I've seen this across many, I've analyzed thousands at this point. Um the it's typically domains that have a very strong link profile. Okay, it's just a fact. Uh and look at the the median amount of domain or of backlinks is also really high as well. Okay, but going back to what I mentioned earlier with the majestic million. Okay, funny enough, go back and look at this. Just so happens to be that every single domain that was cited is in the Majestic Million. Now that makes sense because they all have good link profiles and Majestics Majestic Million is largely link driven. So makes a lot of sense. But once again just kind of reinforcing this idea that if you want to be in the static training data and you want to be uh you know considered uh you know if you want to create content or pages uh that influence the responses, get your brand in those responses, you got to focus on domains that are already doing really well. Okay. So, just a very simple example, but I've seen this across the board. This is a recent example I just pulled where we're seeing the types of websites that tend to that tend to show up a lot in the citations. Based on my experience, blogs do they show up a lot. Okay, blogs tend to show up a lot. I see a lot of directories and so by directory that might mean like, you know, G2 or AO or things like that. And then YouTube and Reddit, they pop up a lot. So once again going back to this this is you know I've been talking about this now for many years which is you know this search everywhere optimization process it just applies here okay you if you create content on your website that's only the first thing you want to do that's one small equation of the process then you need to go and distribute that content and have the appropriate uh content type for these different platforms as well like we can't just live on our website our website is not enough and when we look at You can see even the I've even split up the types of blogs that tend to get cited a lot. So like for example, uh agency blogs and SAS blogs and other types of blogs showed up a lot in this case. Like straight publisher blogs where basically they're monetized through ads or affiliate links or whatever it is. They don't tend to show up that much. Okay. based on my experience and I've been seeing this a lot. It seems to be the blogs that get cited are from actual businesses. Um, so that's just what I've seen. And you can see this here more specifically like publisher 25% give or take and then you know businesses essentially that sell products or services 75%. Okay. So I don't know why that is but that's just what it seems to be right now. That could change. Okay. All right. So let's make sure we've covered everything. We talked about the static and rag process uh query extraction and you know going back to the query extraction here these queries this is a really good example where you can take one of these queries and you can run it through a tool like rankability you can see I did one of the really longtail ones which is a you know Adidas Addi0ero afterburner 9 baseball cleat 2025 like really longtail phrase okay um and what you'll notice though is the value of doing this is that like a tool like rank rankability is going to go and find the top ranking results just like what Jack GBT would do. Chap GBT goes to search, looks at the top ranking results based on the evidence is that it typically will only pull between one and 20 pages and try to find uh try to extract uh sections out of those pages. So, we're not talking about all you have to be ranking well if you want to have any chance. And so, this is what you know Rankability is doing. going out and it's and it's extracting the entities topics from the top ranking results. So then you can create a highly relevant asset. Okay. So like in this case because it's so long tail you don't even need to build a crazy long asset. We're it's only recommending you know 300 words minimum and and this is using the median word count. So 300word asset um that can nail this this query really really well. And if you look at the competitors you can see none of them are like insanely optimized either. Okay, so building out a dedicated page specifically for this would do quite well. And all you have to do is just look at these entities, these relevant entities, and you build out that relevant asset. It's as simple as that. And you need to be attacking all of these. Every single query that you see in this query fan out process is an opportunity for you to build more topic authority which we know influences uh the training set and also to capture this longtail traffic that could potentially help you get cited in the LLMs. Okay, so it's all interconnected. This is why I'm saying SEO is it's very similar. It's just some small differences here we're talking about. Okay. All right. And then finally, um, very simply, Shopify integration is happening inside of ChatGBT. Okay? So, if you're doing e-commerce, you got to pay attention to this. Um, when we look at this little example here, we'll close this out. You can see that this little block, the little shopping block in here. Very soon, users will probably be able to actually like purchase a product inside of ChatGpt. So, you know, being solely focused on your website is just not a smart game anymore. We got to be focused on, you know, building influence on thirdparty platforms. That's just going to be the way going forward. Uh these platforms don't want people to leave. They don't want people to leave. But in the meantime, there's a lot of opportunity to influence these platforms. And most importantly, the mo the biggest thing that you can do right now is let's say you're selling baseball cleat and you're not showing up on this list. Okay? You want your brand to show up here when people search for baseball cleat. Maybe you've got some re revolutionary baseball cleats you want to sell. Um, how do you get on this list? Well, the first thing you do is very simple. Go to the sources and try to see how many of these sources that you can actually get a link on yourself. Now, are you going to be able to get a link on Nike? No. Are you able to get a link on New Balance? Definitely not. These are your core competitors. You're not going to get links there. However, you start looking at some of the the third-party retailers like Baseball Express. You see YouTube. I'd go on this YouTube channel here and I would see is there an opportunity where we can actually like pay, you know, pay this is there an opportunity we can actually pay this influencer to review our new baseball cleat. Funny enough, little hack here, the LLM uh when they're when they're going through the training process, they don't differentiate between organic recommendations and paid recommendations. There's no there's no difference there. So whether it's sponsored or not sponsored, it still gets used as long and if it comes from a good source, it will still get priority in the training set. So you should be reaching out to all these influencers so then they can start talking about your brand. These unlin brand mentions influence the LLMs. Okay, this is a perfect example. All right, so once again, a lot more work to do, but at the end of the day, we the LLMs kind of give us the blueprint for what we need to be doing. So hope that helps. Oh, and by the way, uh, go ahead and, if you haven't gotten this already, it's a free checklist I built and I'm going to be updating this more, but I'll have it below the video, completely free download checklist, start going through this process. I'm going to be putting in a content like, you know, page level specific checklist very, very soon. But this will give you like a really highlevel overview of many actions that you can take to optimize for geo. So, hope that helps. And also, last thing I'll say is Gotch SEO Academy is going through a serious serious upgrade. Um, I would highly recommend if you want to really master the art and science of geo, would highly recommend applying because I'm already building the new training. It's called the uh geo expert certification and I'm also going to be upgrading the agency accelerator to reflect a lot of these new changes, new systems. Um, so you know, this is really built for agency agency owners, but you know, there's there's a lot of value in here. So, I would highly recommend applying because I'm going to be drip feeding these lessons. So, if you want to stay ahead, I would recommend joining. Okay. Thank you so much for watching.