Title: How I Improved Rankings by 57% in 24 Hours
Video ID: 12BnhcS3gsU
Published: 2025-09-17T14:49:26Z
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=12BnhcS3gsU

---

So, if you've gone inside of Google Search Console recently, you may have noticed some data like this. You're going to see your average position climbing. Now, you might think you produce some sort of amazing SEO result, but the truth is this is not what it appears to be because if you click on impressions, you'll see what's going on here. We're seeing a huge decline in impressions and an increase in average position. Clicks are staying about the same. Nothing is going to change there, but these two data points are changing. And it's because of the way that Google is changing its settings within the search. So you can go here and check this article out from uh from search engine roundtable. But basically what happened here is before when you were on Google, you could actually set it so you could see the top 100 results. And what this allowed tools like rankability and other SEO tools to do is you could, you know, would they could scrape the top 100 results. Well, Google has basically put an end to that. I don't know how long this will be, but as of right now, they've made it so that when you go into Google, for example, just do an example, and we'll type in something like, you know, say blue shoes, you'll see we'll go down here, and there's no longer uh, you know, the option for it to show additional results outside of the top 10. So, you used to be able to just keep going and it would show the top, you know, top 100. You could change your settings to do that. Um, but that's not the case anymore. So, as a result, what has happened is now all of these impressions have dropped dramatically. And there's a few reasons for this. Number one, and I've been saying this for a long time, these impressions that you see here in Google Search Console are not always humans, okay? There's a there's a lot of statistics out there that say that anywhere between 50 to 60% of all traffic online comes from bots or scrapers. And so you've probably also seen some people saying that this doesn't matter because you know keywords that are ranking outside of page one aren't that important. This is why you want to be able to see the keywords that are ranking in the top 100. And keywords that are ranking from positions 50 and beyond are always the best opportunities for building more more topic support and to ultimately enhance that cluster and make it stronger. Okay. So the initial seed that we were looking at here is you know does Google penalize AI content. So what we can do is I've sorted this by by position and I can start to look at some of these topics and see you know is there are there any topics here that would be a great additional asset to build or are there any topics in here that would be useful to inject into that content itself right to to enhance it even more. Okay so what I'm looking at here is a very simple question. Does Google have an AI writing tool? Okay, so this is a good example of a keyword phrase that wouldn't really be great for the the primary topic that we found this from, but might be good for a dedicated asset, right? And we look through this another one here, pure spam penalty. This is another interesting topic that popped up here. This could be a dedicated post. And so what I do is when I'm looking to build more topic support, I love looking at these keywords that are beyond positions 50 and beyond because there's almost always going to be a mismatch between this topic and the page that is that is uh that is surfacing this keyword. And if that page was relevant enough, it would it would rank better for these these topics, right? And more times than not, unless it's a brand new page, of course, but a lot of these topics, usually it's an indication that we need to to build a dedicated page. So, people that are saying like, "Oh, well, this doesn't matter because the keywords beyond position, you know, beyond page one don't matter, uh they do matter and they matter uh as far as your strategy, you know, not necessarily to like be tracking them per se, but to to continue to build topic support." Now, uh, on the topic of tracking, okay, so tracking has become very complicated recently. Um, and there's a few things you should be doing to track. Number one, you should be using Google Analytics 4, uh, and number two, you should be using Google Search Console. They're both free. So, we got we've got plenty of available data we can play with completely for free. Okay. Now, one thing you can do in Google Search Console instead of looking at like the quantity of impressions or individual keywords per se for as far as tracking, a better thing to do is look at it on a URL basis. So, right now I filtered this by URL um on one of our websites and you can see I can track this performance over time. You need to focus more on the overall growth of a page, not just one individual keyword here and there. Okay? And so when I'm looking at a page like this and let's say I want to uh improve this page, I'm not thinking about how do I improve the rankings for this one individual keyword. Like that's a very old school way of thinking. What you want to be thinking about is like, okay, we've got this URL. If we've got the, you know, the content properly structured and optimized, of course, now how can we enhance this page either by, you know, adding more relevant topics or how do we build more support around this page? So once again, nothing incredibly complicated here. I'm just going to go in here. I'm going to filter. I'm going to look at the page itself and I'm going to look at the keywords where we're not doing particularly well and say okay uh you know best agency rank tracking an ironic keyword to uh to to tackle here but for this particular page it's about AI search visibility tracking so this is kind of close but not super close so having a building out a dedicated page makes a lot of sense here right you know one that we can truly target this keyword and this is the way that I start to break it out and try to figure out okay Does this have different intent? If I was going to run paid ads to this page, would it be relevant enough? Would it convert? That's where my mind goes and I'm thinking about that. So, um, so if it has different intent, it's a, you know, completely different topic and you're not willing to run paid ads on those those keywords to that page, that's a good indication you should build out a secondary page. Okay. Now, also with the tracking, um, I'll show you real quickly just a little preview of this. This is a little Looker dashboard that's specifically built for AI search tracking. Okay, so what we've done is we've integrated Google Analytics, Google Search Console um and we use this template that feeds into uh feeds into this sheet here. Okay, that can help us track AI generator responses. Now, this is something that I show how to build in my new AI search uh tracking and analytics certification inside of Gotchasio Academy. So, I show how to build this entire thing, but regardless, anyone can do this. So you just have to sync up all the data from all the tools and with a little bit of work um you can figure out how to do this. But this is really important. You want to start to segment your AI search tracking from your traditional uh you know organic search traffic like traffic uh because we want to segment those out. Okay, because we want to be able to see how we're performing across multiple platforms. So what we're looking at here is we want to see how we're performing basically in AI chat platforms, right? Anything where there's AI generated responses. But you also want to have tracking specifically for SEO, which means inside of Google Analytics, you're tracking the organic traffic. And like I mentioned, you're tracking performance here in Google Search Console, which is not always very accurate, but it's still something you should use cuz we have this available data. Okay. So, um, so anyway, if you're interested in my new certification, you can go ahead and just apply. I'll have a link below. But I do want to say one thing about rankability just to kind of re-emphasize this point about, you know, a lot of SEO tools breaking. So you can see before uh with rankability the way it works is we we go and extract the top 30 results. Now this is this has affected us us slightly but not really that much because the way that our algorithm works in the content optimizer is that we frontload all of the weight uh towards the top 10, right? And actually the further it goes up the top 10, the more weight that's assigned to the topics that those competitors use. Okay? Okay. So, if you go over here and you click on competitors, you can see, you know, most of the weight that we're going to assign is going to be towards these top ranking competitors as far as the topics that they're covering. So, what you can see now is after this recent update, this is a report that we ran and you can see the difference is not that much, right? We can still see all of the relevant topics that the top competitors are hitting on, right? all the relevant topics that they're hitting on, which means if you model the top 10 competitors, you're still going to do incredibly well because they're in the top 10 and they're already doing what you should be doing as far as topic coverage. Okay, that's the beauty of this tool is you go in here, you get to see the exact topics that the competitors are covering, which then tells you just to uh just to be able to play, you got to at least cover the same topics. Okay? need to bring your own uniqueness and do all that good stuff and you know make it your own but there is a certain level of relevance uh criteria or minimum that you have to hit. Okay, so that's what happens in rankability. So you'll see the difference now is this is something we're probably going to um expand out on. But you can see we're only pulling from the top 10 right now. We'll probably expand out to the top 20, top 25 just to get more coverage as far as potential topics. But we found no difference between the just using the top 10 versus using the top 30. There's really not that much of a difference because at the end of the day, you should model who's the best uh you know for any particular keyword. So, just wanted to give you a quick update on that. Not a huge it hasn't really impacted us, but it is something to pay attention to and don't get too excited when you see your your average position climbing. Uh it doesn't actually mean uh too much. So, just wanted to give you that quick update. Hope that helps. And if you're interested in my new AI search uh tracking and analytic certification, go ahead and apply below.