Title: Get SEO Clients That Pay You $6,718 Per Month
Video ID: A9-9rZy5q3M
Published: 2025-04-28T17:40:16Z
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A9-9rZy5q3M

---

My first SEO client paid me a whopping $100 per month. And now we routinely close SEO deals worth $5,000 per month. But that's not even the best part. There's a big growth secret that big SEO agencies don't want you to know. And today, I'm going to show you how I use their secret to take a brand new SEO agency from $0 to $30,000 per month in less than a year. Let's get right into it. Okay, so here's an example of a reall life campaign that we've been working on since December. And you can see what makes this unique is we aren't just doing SEO for this client. This is one client. So what what we need to be thinking about is how do we increase the lifetime value of a single account or a single client. And so this is what all the big SEO agencies do. They bring on a particular client, let's say just for SEO, and then they they sell multiple secondary services to increase the lifetime value of that client. And there's so many cascading effects of doing that. Number one is when you help a business more, you're doing more for them. The client becomes a lot stickier, meaning they're going to stick with you for much longer because you're not just the SEO guy or gal anymore. You're doing SEO, you're doing Google Ads, you're their website design and website development and whatever else you throw in there. Okay? So, this is really, really important. That's why I'm going to be showing you how to structure this today. Even if you're brand new and you're building a a new agency or you're an established agency, I still recommend that you that you take this approach because this is the single best way to grow your business without having to get any new SEO clients. You just you just focus on your existing clients and you increase the lifetime value. Okay, so what you're looking at here is we first sold them website design and development. Okay, that was the first thing we sold. These are all the additional payments and installments to to finish out that particular product. And then we layered on the SEO and then we layered on the Google ads. Okay? And now that's going to be recurring revenue every single month. And you can see this is in April. So every single month we're going to be doing Google ads and SEO. Google ads and SEO. And then we're even going to try to expand out even further. Maybe we can start doing their email marketing. Maybe we can start doing their social media ads. Okay? So start thinking about what are those secondary services that we can layer on. Okay? So just a real quick example of this. Now want to show you something that's very important is it according to Harvard acquiring a new client is 5 to 25 times more expensive than retaining an existing one. So if this doesn't give you all the data you need to go all in on trying to increase the value of your existing clients and I don't know what else to tell you uh because this is this is everything I needed to know to to make that investment. Okay. So, it is it is very easy to be persuaded by all these guru internet marketers out there that think you should just be focused on client acquisition all the time. And I'm talking about real businesses that sell real products and services. The best way to grow a business is to focus on your existing clients. Okay? And this is really, really important in agency. I cannot stress it enough. Okay? Plus, if you want to build a futureproof SEO agency, then this is the way to do it. because if you're just only selling SEO, it's extremely risky. Now, keep in mind, it is a good idea on the front end, which I'm going to be showing here in a second. So, now let me walk you through three real life examples of big agencies that do this. So, number one is Scorpion. They I think they'd make about $100 million per year in their agency. It's pretty insane. They're absolutely huge. Um, and you can see though, look at the way that they've expanded. Okay. So, there's there's a few different ways that you can you can grow an agency. Number one, you can focus on, you know, one specific vertical and then you focus on one specific service. And I'll be showing you what that that flow looks like. So, it' be like we're just going to focus on lawyers and we're just going to do SEO for lawyers. Okay? And so, you would focus on the the vertical and the service. Now, as you grow as an agency, what you do is you start to expand into different verticals. So, that's what Scorpion has done. You can see, you know, who we help. They started out as law firms, right? And that specifically personal injury and then you could see how they expanded the vertical focus even more, right? So then criminal defense and bankruptcy and they expanded within that larger law vertical and then they moved into franchises and healthcare and home services. So now they basically do everything essentially. But they didn't start there, right? They started super granular and they started to expand and started to scale across different verticals. Okay? But then they didn't just focus on SEO either, right? So you can see now they're talking about getting more customers and filling your schedule and all these different things which are really just fancy ways of saying they do digital marketing and conversion rate optimization analytics. Okay, so but they're they've they're starting to hit all these different fronts. That way they can do more for that business and so then that business can become reliant on them. Okay, and so as an agency this isn't about locking your client down. It's about giving them even more value to the point where you actually become a piece of their business, a partner in their business, not just, you know, the SEO guy that can just get fired at any point. Okay. So, the first step to building a futurep proof SEO agency is to not just sell SEO anymore. You that like we're going to sell SEO on the front end as our core service, but then we're going to be thinking about how to layer on these other services. So, what does that look like? Well, first thing we have to do is we have to establish our positioning. Okay? So most honestly I I've worked with hundreds you know possibly thousands now at this point of people who are either starting an SEO agency or trying to grow their SEO agency and I can tell you when I perform audits on any agency the biggest issue I see is that they're just generalists. Okay? And so you can get to 20 $30,000 a month being a generalist. Like you do SEO for every business in St. Louis. Okay? And I know this because that's exactly what I did when I started. I just became the go-to so-called SEO expert in St. Louis. And any business that came in, I would do SEO for them. Didn't matter whether it was a plumber or uh an e-commerce business or whatever it was, I would do it. Okay? And you can get away with that in the beginning. But over time, you'll start to see the holes in the boat and you'll start to see how difficult that is to scale because every single time you bring on a new business, it's like starting from scratch. you have to relearn their industry. It's like it's literally beginning like from ground zero every single time. So instead, what you want to do is pick one vertical. You need to niche down. And I've done this in all of my businesses. I'll just show you a small example of this for Gotcha SEO Academy. Look it. I only focus on agencies, okay? This isn't a I'm not a you know SEO training program for everyone on the planet, okay? That's not what I'm doing. Could I help a business owner, in-house SEO, all these people that do SEO? Absolutely. My systems are applicable pretty much in any scenario. But the the ideal client profile that I want to serve are agency owners and SEO service providers. Okay, that is it. That's who I have selected. That's one niche that I'm going to focus on. One ideal ideal client profile, which makes everything easier, right? your marketing gets easier, your content strategy gets easier, your sales gets easier, your fulfillment gets easier, everything gets easier. Okay? So, pick one ideal client profile, and then you can see just going down the list, another example. I've got a book like I just mentioned, and it focuses on just my ideal client profile. Then I've got rankability. Okay, once again, no surprise here of what this focus on. Okay, I can't spell it, but you can see specifically agencies, right? So, could Rankability help a lot of different ideal client profiles? Absolutely. Can it help businesses? Sure. Can it help in-house SEOs? Absolutely. Can it help enterprise companies? Of course. This the software works no matter what. But we know that the people that use our software the best are agencies who need to deliver consistent results for their clients. So, we specifically pick this one ideal client profile and it's all that we focus on. So, I'm do I'm living proof that this works. Okay? This absolutely works. And then the other examples here to go to the next level is 10x HVAC SEO staintl.com. Okay. So what we want to do is not just pick a specific vertical, but then we want to pick a service focus and then we want to pick a location. Okay. So what this really looks like is first we're going to pick a vertical. So pick a vertical. Example might be let's say HVAC. You can go in that market if you want, but there's plenty out there. home services. Just go to Scorpion and look at the different markets that they serve here and then just pick one of these because you know that these are already proven. These are already good markets. Okay? Because Scorpion wouldn't be going after them if they weren't. Okay? It's very simple. Okay? So, now going back to this uh the vertical is the first part. So, what are we going to go after? Just pick one. Okay? One where it's going to be a high value type of business where they can pay 2500 to $5,000 per month for SEO minimum. Okay? Okay, so you want to be in that range cuz it's going to help you grow much faster. Okay, so we got our vertical first thing. Next, what we want to do is pick our core service offering. Okay, in this case, it's just going to be SEO. No surprise. All right, so you want to pick something for the front end. Now, this doesn't mean we're not going to sell other stuff. It just means on the front end, that is how we're going to position ourselves. Okay, so first is HVAC. Then we're focusing so vertical service and then especially if you're new this is particularly important but even if you're established I still recommend picking one location. All right so in this case St. Louis. Okay. Ideally pick the location that you have the most familiarity with. Okay. So I live in St. Louis. It makes a lot of sense that you know as far as where I can have the greatest level of influence it's going to be where I live. Okay. So what you see the end the end outcome of this little positioning is a hyperfocused agency. So we have hvac staintl.com. This is going to allow us to do a few things. Number one, you're going to rank so freaking easily. It's not even kid. Like I'm not even kidding how easy it's going to be. You get an exact match domain like this or a very keyword-rich domain. Uh you build a simple onepager. Uh you will rank very easily. You might need a couple links here and there, but we're talking super easy rankings. So, first we're going to attack that keyword because we want to make it abundantly clear that this is where we're serving, right? And this doesn't mean this is going to be this way forever, but right now you want to get hyperfocus. So then the goal here is you're going to try to get at least three to five businesses in this city or county to to become a client in this one vertical. Okay? And so you can use exclusivity to your advantage. You can say we only do we only work with one HBAC company in St. Louis city and then if you're in Chesterfield or Bowwin or Creve Core we'll work with one that targets those locations as well. So you could end up getting you know five to 10 clients in that one vertical in that one location depending on the size of the city. Um and too many people think it's like oh I can only do work with one per city but like St. Louis has tons of HVAC businesses and not just in the city but in the county. There's tons there's like I think we've we've done this research before. There's like 40 or 50 HVAC companies operating in St. Louis right now. So there's no reason that you couldn't get at least three to four wherever you live. Okay? So people get think way too broadly before they get super narrow. So get super narrow. So that's part one. This is going to be an SEO play. You're going to rank for this. Then number two is what you want to do is also you can run Google ads specifically in that area in that geo. So you're going to run ads specifically for HVAC SEO queries but only in St. Louis. So that way anytime that query is going through for any HVAC company that lives here in St. Louis, they're going to see your ads, right? And it's going to be have that hyperfocused message that has a high probability of converting. Okay, very very important. So you can do both the SEO and the paid play to acquire clients. Okay? But the key is that you're hyperfocused. You have to be hyperfocused. This is the key. All right? And this also sets you up as well to run ads on Facebook and other platforms as well. Okay? So this is part one. Just get the vertical get the vertical squared away. Okay? That's really really important. And the more granular you can go, the better. Now in the future as you grow, you may just consolidate. So like we have 10x HVACso.com. Maybe we'll take that, you know, that location like very specific domain and 301 redirect it back to the mother site. We can do that. But don't like don't get so fixated on the what's going to happen in the future. Just get fixated on right now. Like I'm trying to acquire clients right now. I don't I don't need to worry about what's going to happen, you know, if I get too many clients, right? That's like that's a good problem to have. Like if you have too many clients and you got to, you know, bring things back together, okay, that is a good problem. But until you get to that point, don't worry about it. Focus on using the best strategy to acquire clients. Okay, so this is part one. Next thing we're going to do is now we're going to think about how does this work in the actual funnel. Okay, so I'm going to show you an example of this. And first things first is you're going to need traffic. Okay, so we've got our little setup here and we're going to need to drive traffic to the website, right? So traffic here. So, we'll actually just put um we'll put this here and we'll call this right here. We'll just call this traffic. Okay. So, there's a few different types of traffic we can have, right? So, we can either have uh outbound traffic. All right? And this is the, you know, this is the grind, but it is necessary and for when you're in the beginning stages. And then we have inbound traffic. Okay? This is my personal favorite. I mean, I've grown every business through inbound marketing. So this is my personal favorite, but I do think there is a time and place uh specifically for outbound as well. Okay, so outbound is anything like cold emailing, uh cold calling, uh sending the prospective businesses something in the mail, like there's a lot of things you can do on this front. This is a good strategy when you uh are building up some of your inbound channels. Inbound on the other hand is like I described is using SEO, Google ads, Facebook ads, uh YouTube, whatever else, right? That's my preferred thing and I think you should start doing that today because you want to start to plant seeds. Plant as many seeds as possible because it takes time for the organic to build up. Okay, so first we got the traffic. Then once we got traffic and we got eyeballs, we got the right eyeballs, we got to send them to a funnel. Okay, so we'll bring this over. And like I said, I'm not getting deep in the traffic piece. my YouTube channel is tons of stuff about inbound. So, just check out the stuff on my channel. Okay. Um, now if I can get this workflow to work, let's go and copy this. So, now we're going to talk a little bit about a funnel. Okay. Now, this is this will vary depending on what stage you're in. Okay. So, if you're new, I'm going to focus on that first. Okay. Listen, let's assume you're 100% new or let's say you don't have a huge portfolio. uh or let's say let's say you do have a portfolio but you don't have like specific results in the vertical that you're trying to attack. Okay, because that could be that certainly can make things a little more challenging. All right, so what you want to do is we want to focus on you know getting results as fast as possible and when you don't have a lot of results in a particular vertical you have to place all the risk on yourself for that prospect. Okay, because they're going to be skeptical to work with you. So what you're going to do is you're going to reverse the risk and you're going to take on all the risk so that then you can build your portfolio in this vertical. Okay? So what we're going to do I recommend is a free SEO diagnosis. Okay? And it by the way this could be this doesn't have to be SEO specific. This could be like a free design diagnosis. It could be a free Google Ads diagnosis. Just insert whatever you want. I'm just doing SEO because that's my specialty. But free SEO diagnosis. You can see a live example of this right here. free HVAC SEO diagnosis. Okay, you click on this, boom, they go to a form, they fill it out. If I think it's a good fit, I send them uh a link to book a call. Okay? And then before the call, I just do a quick little audit, jump on the call. Hey, I found these three to five things. Let's talk about uh the opportunity. Okay? Now, if you're not established, what you would do is you would go for a micro audit. So, we're going to do a paid micro audit. Okay? This is very important because you're going to take this prospect from just, you know, a regular person to actually becoming a real client. Okay? So, this might be, you know, let's say anywhere between, depending on where you're at, I would say like 47 to $97. Okay? And this would just be one time a one-time investment that is low risk, low barrier to entry. And then we're going to add one other piece to this. Okay? So, it's going to be super low ticket and 100% money back guarantee. Okay, this is only if you're brand new. Okay, if you're 100% brand new to this, this is what you should do. Okay, because you just want to reduce that. You want to minimize the risk for them. You want them to say, you know what, what do I have to lose for paying 97 bucks to learn how I could grow my business? Okay, it's just like a stupidly good deal. Plus, if it sucks, I'll just get my money back. Like, it's the ultimate good deal. Okay, so this is really good if you're new. Okay, so we'll call this funnel uh funnel if we'll say uh new. Okay. All right. Or I get more specific here. We'll say newbie. Okay, and I'm not saying you're you necessarily a newbie, but I'm just saying if you if you don't have a lot of results in this vertical that I would consider to be newer to this vertical. So, you should do this. Now, what you do is once you deliver this paid micro audit, the next logical step is you just deliver the audit. But here's the key. Make sure that you book a call. Okay? I want you to book a call with them. Do not just send them an email with the audit and say, "Hey, here's your audit. Good luck." Uh, that's not a good idea. Finish the audit, the paid audit. Then send an email say, "Hey, Joe, just finished the audit. Uh, please book a call here so we can discuss my findings." Okay? So then you're going to go on that call and you're going to discuss the findings, give results in advance, show them all of the opportunities and and then once you know you kind of all work through it might be 30 minutes to an hour with this you know it's kind of like a coaching call and then at the end you can discuss like okay listen um so how are you going to go about implementing this and if they're like I I don't know we're going to try to figure it out or you say okay listen um we can actually execute all this work for you. So this is literally what we do. Like we we execute SEO and here are the results that we've gotten in the past with exact situations that are similar to yours. Okay. So then you could slowly transition into the execution of that audit and the execution of the campaign. Okay. So then you just go into creating a proposal. All right? You create the proposal and then you close a retainer. Okay? It's that simple. So like I said, this is if you're new, go directly, you know, go this route. You're going to go from the audit and then you're going to go to a custom uh a custom proposal. Okay? And so this is the this is a very very effective audit if you're newer. Okay? Or a very effective funnel if you're newer. Okay? So this is just a simple simple process and this helps mitigate this helps you just break through everyone else who's trying to compete because most people just want to go directly from this to this, right? Because everyone wants to make the most money possible. But if you just extend that process a little bit more, be willing to, you know, not make money right away, you're actually going to do much better. Okay? Now, if you're established, I recommend you can just kind of skip past that part. So, like, for example, I'm not going to be doing probably many micro audits. we might if I feel we need to. But if you're more established, you know, we'll call you established and you've got results, I would just take I would just take this kind of process here and I would still probably do a kind of like free SEO diagnosis type of thing, but I would just eliminate those parts here and just go straight to the custom proposal. Right? So you can jump on the call, the discovery call. So actually be more like this. So be free SEO diagnosis. Um, and then we would go to uh discovery call. Okay, discovery call. And then you're going to go straight to custom proposal. Now, once again, very, very slight detail here. This is something I learned a long time ago, okay? Don't just build out a full proposal right away. What you want to do instead is build like prepare the proposal, get it roughly laid out, and then send them an email and say, you know, hey Joe, the proposal is ready to go. Please book a call. Okay? As soon as that call is on the calendar, then you create that proposal. This is just to prevent you from wasting your time, okay? Because I do recommend using kind of you can use a standard template that you use, but your your proposal should have unique elements in there. And within the custom proposal, it should include elements of the diagnosis, right? Okay, here are the three opportunities that we found and then so on and so forth. Okay, so this is what it looks like at a very high level. We got the kind of let's call it the newbie funnel and then we've got the established funnel which you should just go direct for the custom proposal. Okay, then from there once you actually close a deal, right? You close that SEO deal. So we'll say this uh we know we closed uh closed SEO deal. Okay. So then what you're going to do is every single month I want you to try to identify opportunities in their business where you think you can serve them even better. Right? So you close this first deal and let's say you're on month one. So on month one obviously you're going to execute the campaign, right? You're going to do SEO. You're going to do all the deliverables that you promised and do all the things you need to do. But also I'd be thinking about, you know, okay, let's do a Google Ads audit on them, right? And this is not something you need to tell them in advance. You just go and audit their Google ads and just like look for opportunities. Okay? Then you know in in month two, let's say you're going to do that again, right? So you do month two. This time you're going to you're going to audit something else. Maybe it'll be their design. So design uh you know is it built for conversions, right? So you can audit their design and you can even audit uh you could also even audit their their funnels as well. So audit their conversion funnel, right? And you can see if it's actually working, like are they actually is their conversion funnel actually working. So now what you're doing is you're identifying opportunities. Okay, maybe they've got some issues with Google ads. Their design is a little outdated. It's not really going to drive a lot of conversions and their funnel is not really working. Maybe their forms aren't even working. Maybe they're not tracking calls. Like all these things now, of course, some of these fall under the umbrella of doing SEO as well, but still what we're looking for are these opportunities. And then once again, we're going to do it again in month three, right? We're going to look in month three. Next thing we're going to do is we're just going to say, you know, we're going to audit their uh, you know, their social media advertising strategy. Okay? So, we're doing all these audits to find opportunities. Now, every time, okay, you find an opportunity, you this is why it's so critical to have a monthly check-in with your clients. Okay? You cannot be afraid of your clients. You got to check in with them every single month because this is an opportunity for you to talk about more opportunities. Okay? So, you jump on month one. Well, what you're going to do is every single month, you're going to have a check-in call. Okay? So, little check-in call here. And on this check-in call, you're going to talk about all the stuff that is going on in the campaign. Okay? all the stuff that's going on in the campaign you're going to talk about. So, you're going to talk about the deliverables, results, results, uh, you know, strategy, all that good stuff, okay? Strategy, etc., you're going to talk about all that. You're going to be totally transparent, okay? But then you're also going to present new opportunities. Okay? This is your job. The sales sales doesn't end right here. This is just the beginning. Think of this as the pure beginning beginning of sales. Okay? This is just the beginning part. You're going to win this deal. Make this green. So, emphasizes money. Okay? So, we're going to make that green. You've won the deal. We're all happy. That's great. But next, as soon as month one is going, you're already thinking about how do I add more to this to this deal, right? How do I serve this business at a much deeper level? Okay, so that's why you have to have that monthly check-in. Okay, monthly check-in critical. You need to get them on the phone. Not only is this good for, you know, increasing the size of the retainer and and uh you know, delivering more services to them, but it's a huge vehicle for retention. Okay, there's so many agencies out there that literally hide from hide from the businesses. they don't want to discuss the results because they're probably not getting great results. So, what this helps you stand out, right? If you're willing to jump on the call, you're willing to work through stuff, uh it it shows that you're transparent and you're doing great work. And I can tell you from experience when I started adding phone calls and and having more touch points with my clients, my retention became almost immaculate. Like, we're talking three, four, five years of retention for clients. I've had clients literally since 2015, okay? like so long. And all I did was a couple things. Number one is I implemented weekly touch points. Every week we send them an update. And then number two, I did monthly check-ins over the phone, actually talking to them. But we want to have persontoperson interaction. Okay? These kind of like cold interactions where everything's through email and things get taken out of context and it just isn't good. You need to talk to people if you want to build a real agency. Honestly, building an agency is a it is a people business. And that's why it's so hilarious when you see people talking about this is how you can run your agency using nothing but you know agents and all. No, you can do that for some of the fulfillment elements. But as far as the relationship element of agency, which is 50% of retention comes from the relationships. Okay, 50% I would argue. The other 50% of the is the results. So if you think it's all about results, then you're you are sadly mistaken about what causes retention or cancellation in an agency, okay? It is about relationships. So you have to be really deliberate about that. But most importantly to grow your agency to, you know, kind of get results like I've described here, which is being able to have one client who pays you $33,000 in this short amount of time. That's just one client. One client. Okay? And you think about the LTV of this. When we when we're four or five years deep into this, how much one client will be worth? It' be a couple hundred,000 for just one client. Okay? Multiply that over five clients, 10 clients, 20 clients. You start to realize how big an agency can actually be. Okay? So, I just wanted to show you this today because it it took me a really long time to figure this out. I used to be like, I just got to keep closing more SEO deals. I was so focused about client acquisition and and then I was also really focused on just retention. And retention is good. You want to try to retain as much as possible, but the thing is if you're just only doing SEO, you the amount of value that you're providing that business is very limited. Like you could be the best SEO on the planet, but if you're not doing Google ads, you're not doing retargeting, you're not doing design and conversion rate optimization, like you're just like missing out on so much opportunity. Can't even stress it enough. Also, by the way, if you want me to personally help you, and this is not some like bait and switch. I'm being dead serious. Like, if you go to apply now and you you can submit an application for Gotcha SEO Academy, I've helped I've lost count of the amount of entrepreneurs I've helped build six and seven figure SEO businesses. It's it's just kind of silly at this point because I I honestly believe that any person can build a six-figure SEO agency as long as you have vision, you've got your senses, you've got fingers, you've got the internet, uh you've got maybe a microphone, and you can speak decently and you're not afraid to, you know, jump on the phone with people at least it's you can do it, right? You can do it. So, I I don't bring everyone into our program anymore. It's very limited now at this point, but if you're interested, go to gotchaso.com/application, submit the application. Uh, this does not guarantee a phone call, okay? So, once the application goes through, we actually manually review the application. So, if your application is approved, we'll jump on a discovery call and we'll just see if it's a good fit. And if it's a good fit, we'll talk about the next steps. Okay. Thank you so much for watching. appreciate it.