Title: Free Local SEO Course: My Full 2026 System
Video ID: bfBwk2KK9jc
Published: 2025-06-03T15:27:03Z
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bfBwk2KK9jc

---

Hey, in this video I'm going to walk you through a free local SEO plan that's going to work not just today, but also going into the future. So, I picked a random HVAC business to do this for, and I'm going to map out an entire SEO and digital marketing plan that will actually help them generate more leads, customers, and of course, more revenue. Let's get right into it. So, the keyword we're going after is HVAC company, Plano, Texas. And the best thing to do is find a business that's already doing really well in this area. And so what we did is we found total air and take a look at how well they're doing. So first they're number one in the local pack and they're also number one in the traditional organic. Okay, but that's not all. Also check this out. We want to run them through the large language models as well. So we have Google's new AI mode and we can see they're sitting number three. We can see that they're also ranking number two in chat GPT which is the, you know, their actual search engine. And then Perplexity, they're sitting number one. Okay. So, what we want to see is like, okay, how did they achieve this visibility across all of these platforms? And going forward, we can't just be thinking about our visibility on Google. We have to be thinking about our visibility across multiple channels. And so, this concept of, you know, search everywhere optimization, which you maybe have heard recently, I'm a big advocate of that because I think it's really the only way going forward where you really want to try to dominate as many platforms as you possibly can. Now the big question that everyone has is how do we get more visibility in Google's AI mode chat GPT perplexity claw Gemini all of those you know the new AI driven platforms okay how do we get our business to show up there more okay and there actually is a process you can follow and surprisingly it's not very different than before but there's some elements that are slightly different it's more about the way you need to think about getting visibility there it's not necessarily the process okay so first we want to think about earned media. This is the most powerful factor. And funny enough, uh I' I've been doing SEO since 2011, and this has always been the most powerful factor to determining who's going to win and who's going to lose. And at the end of the day, you need to get highquality back links in the context of a local business. You need to be getting links from local entities, trusted entities in your local area. So, if you're a HVAC company in Plano, you need to get links from highly trusted Plano entities. And I'll be showing in a second how you can really streamline this process. But in general, highquality links from trusted entities in your local area. Once you've tapped those out, then you can kind of expand out to the to the county level, the state level, and then eventually national. But start local with that. And backlinks are the key differentiator. And there's already evidence showing that not only does we already know it affects Google performance, but it actually does seem to affect whether you show up in the large language models as well. Okay. Uh, another one too is mentions. Okay. So, you'll you'll be seeing recently that if you end up in a listical, like for example, we'll go back and look here. If you see, you know, best HVAC companies in Plano and you're in that list, Google is probably going to show you more likely. Also, the same with all the other platforms. If you show up in those lists, it's going to increase your odds of actually showing up here. And notice like in Perplexity, look at Yelp. Okay, so Yelp is one of the one of the sources that's used. So if you're not in Yelp, then you're going to decrease your odds of showing up in some of these platforms. Okay, so that's the first part. And then the other one, like I mentioned, is reviews. Now, going back to what I mentioned here with with mentions, it doesn't have to be a linked mention. as long as you're being mentioned in other areas. It could be in the list to go on a very authoritative website. It could be your brand getting mentioned just uh on Reddit or in in user generated content. So it doesn't have to be a backlink. It doesn't have to be a link itself. It can just literally be a brand an unlin brand mention. Okay, that is maybe some evidence there that that's kind of influencing the large language model. So in general, just do marketing for your brand. Okay, don't worry about no followovers, do follow links. Like, don't worry about all that stuff. Just think about how do we how do we actually go out and market our business outside of our website. If you just stay isolated on your website and you just create content there, and that's that's okay. And we're going to be talking about content, but I'm just saying that's not enough to differentiate you from all the other people. The the key differentiator is all of the earned stuff. This is where all the magic happens. backlinks, getting getting your brand mentioned either by trusted entities, influencers, UGC, and then of course collecting reviews. That should be your most of your focus if you really want to drive performance on across any platform ultimately. Then we have our own media. Okay, so re in reality, we truly only own a few things. We own our email list and we own our website. Okay, so you we're going to be talking about how to focus on the website, but in general, these are your two platforms you really should be getting right because it can become very very powerful marketing devices and we can use it to educate the large language models on what our brand is all about. Okay? And then rented assets. Okay? So your Google business profile, you don't own your Google business profile. You don't own Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube. You don't own any of these platforms. This is simply rented territory and we can build our audiences there. We can use them as a way to market our brands but it you don't own this stuff. So just always view it from that lens like this is rented property. Um I got to play nice or they could suspend us. Okay. So but we do want to start building presence on these platforms. And this will vary which platform you pick should be dependent on the business that you're running. So, like in HVAC, it's a no-brainer to have use a Google business profile. Any local business should have a Google business profile, and that should be like the focus of most of your effort. But then the kind of secondary platforms you want to think about are ones that are just related to the business that you have. So like Facebook Instagram LinkedIn that's those kind of fit in for an HVAC business. And then YouTube is is a good option basically for any business because it once again it's a Google product. So, we want to start driving awareness in that Google product because we know that Google's always going to show preferential treatment for, you know, for any business that's showing up there and in the content that shows up there. Okay. So, the reason why I'm showing you this, you might be wondering is like, okay, what does this have to do with the HBAC business? Well, the reason is because all three of these elements when you do this, right, will drive large language model visibility. Okay? So you can't directly do anything in chat GBT or any of these platforms. Uh it's not you can't go and like create content in there. You can't you don't have a profile like there's nothing in there that you can actually like optimize per se. What but it's more of a a culmination of everything that you're doing that gets that the visibility inside of chat GPT and Plexity and these other platforms. So, I think there's been kind of a lot of focus on like how do we optimize for it? And like that that's all fine, but but the thing is it's really just as simple as this. Like if you're doing marketing in general, that's what's going to produce the large the the visibility in here. Okay? There's stop looking for like little quick ways to do it because the reality is this is the large language models don't they're not operating the same way as the platforms that we're used to, right? They're they're looking at the whole landscape across the whole internet and all the databases and everything that's available and then determining what should show up uh when it when it gives an answer to a user. Okay. And so what we're trying to do is we need to feed it the right inputs. So we have these earned, you know, the earned elements that are going to be highly influential. We've got our owned assets which we can kind of control, you know, what what we're talking about and ultimately where we can build authority around what topics. And then of course once again we can reinforce those topics on our rented assets. Okay. So just be thinking more about let's just really focus on doing great marketing for our brand and that's what will lead to large language model visibility. So this is the random business that I just picked uh Hurststone Heat and Air. I have no affiliation with this business whatsoever. I just saw that they were ranking uh pretty far back in the local pack. So I figured I could, you know, help them out a little bit. So there's a couple things are doing really well right now. Number one is they've got great reviews. So 99 five-star reviews. Exceptional. That's really really good. One thing I also really love is a lot of unique like photos from the brand. This is the actual uh business owner who actually you have real pictures. This is really really good. You want to have real pictures, not stock photos. Okay, so that's good. But one thing you want to take a look at is always look at the the current competitors. And as I mentioned, Total Lair is doing exceptionally well here. But what we want to look at is like, okay, how do we compare ourselves against the top competitors and we look at the top three, they have significantly more reviews than we do. So take, you know, take the top three, average it out, and then you get kind of that average review count. But truthfully, you should be thinking about me top like getting to the point for the top competitor. So, whoever the whoever is the top competitor with the most reviews, that should be your target really because at 1500, it's not going to be easy to narrow that gap, but that should be the goal that you're going for. Because if you really want to win here, you're going to have to be in the top three. So, even if you, you know, you, let's say you don't catch up to 1500 and you get, I don't know, 900. Well, that's going to put you ahead of, you know, the other two at least, right? So, we want to at least try to get in that top three. you really have no chance unless you start generating a lot of reviews. Okay. Uh now the other part of this is look at the categories. Okay. So we look at the top three. They're all HVAC contractor every single one. But then we go and look at uh the brand of business that we picked here. You can see they're air conditioning contractor. All right. So maybe that's all that they do. Maybe they just work on air conditioning. And if that's the case, then that's fine. But based on what I'm seeing, they do provide heating and air conditioning. So based on that, you know, that one element and they have HVAC here as well. So based on that, I would highly recommend changing the category to align with the top competitors. Okay. Uh and then as far as their address, they're actually in Plano, so they're good on that front. That's not that's not a concern. But sometimes just a a switch of category can have a significant effect on local pack performance. It is actually very very powerful. But don't don't uh you know reinvent the wheel. just look at what the competitors are already doing and then just do that. Okay. So, as far as the local pack goes, they're not doing any like they're doing things really well already. They have great reviews. They're clearly asking for review to get this many. Uh they're located in Plano, which is critical. They just need to switch the switch the category. Now, the other big one is just in general with like reviews, since there's such a big review gap, this has to become a much more systematic approach to be able to narrow that gap a lot faster. So here's what you can do. So becoming a review generation machine is absolutely critical for any local business. So here are a few things that you can do. Number one, systemize this whole process. You need to have you need to use either Service Titan or House Call Pro or whatever review generation platform. These are specific to service-based businesses, but but in general, you need systems that automatically text the customers after a job uh and and will automatically send a link via email for reviews. This is just to have that nice layer in place. So as soon as a job is done, boom, the system takes over and you can start generating these reviews on autopilot, but you don't want to just leave it all to the automated systems. You also want to build it into your culture. Okay, so many things that you can kind of implement here as you start to grow as a business. But number one, followup, right? You every, you know, every single week you're having someone internally following up with customers who haven't left a review, right? just just reaching out to them trying to you know generate that review is really really critical has to become a part of your culture. Uh offering bonuses to your employees for generating reviews. Okay. So you can't incentivize reviews directly to a customer. You can't say hey go and leave us a review and we'll give you 50% off you know your next uh filter change. You can't do that. That's technically against Google's terms. Do do businesses do it all the time? Absolutely. I see businesses doing it all over the place, but it is actually against Google's guidelines. So, you got to be really careful. So, but you can incentivize your employees for for the work that they're doing to generate reviews. So, give bonuses, create a competition for it internally, and that's one way to kind of get people to, you know, really start wanting to ask, right? And at the end of the day, the way you get more reviews, you just ask more. It is that simple. Uh and then create a script that every single contractor in the business can follow. One thing for tracking it is in the script, make sure that they say, "Hey, you know, uh, if you could, if we did a nice good job today, go and leave us a review, make sure you mention Joe in your review." So that way, uh, because it really helps us internally know, uh, that we did a good job, right? So, you you can craft some script. Use chat GBT to build the script for you. Uh, but just make sure that that one key element where they actually like the customer has to mention the contractor because then internally you can track uh, who's getting the most reviews because otherwise it'll be very hard to track. Okay. And then a couple other things here. Uh make it easy. So use QR codes. Have an iPad uh inside your office. Uh you know, for HVAC, you're not going to really be serving a lot of customers in office, but if you're a dentist, you should have an iPad right there where they can leave a review like right on the spot. So just make it easy, make it accessible. If they have to like, you know, sign into Google and do all this crazy stuff, it's going to be really, really hard. So eliminate friction. Make it as easy as possible. And then uh make it a daily action. So whether it's you as the business owner or someone who's working for you internally, make sure that they're constantly thinking about how to generate reviews. They're con it's a it's a system that you guys have. It's just a thing that you are always doing. It's not don't treat it as like a review sprint. Treat it as this is just something we do every day and every week. Okay? Because it is that critical to the business. So once you've optimized your Google business profile, the next thing you want to focus on is the website itself because this is our our conversion machine not just for visitors that are coming from the Google business profile but also organically that may be coming from Google's traditional organic results but also the large language models. Uh there's a lot of evidence and some studies out there showing that homepages are getting the most traffic from large language models. So, we want to make sure that we're really squared away with the design and the conversion elements on this website. So, right now, um I think this is, you know, this looks like a design that was probably with like Squarespace or something like that that was, you know, probably pretty easy to put together. And that's totally fine when you're just trying to get up and going as quickly as possible. And there's actually some things I really like here. We've got, like I said, custom images from the business owner, which is beautiful. Keep doing this. This is awesome. Um, and and don't just avoid stock photos basically as much as you can. But this is all great stuff. So, keep doing this on the job pictures, on the job videos. That's all beautiful marketing collateral. All super good. But we want to kind of refine how this this website is structured to build it for a convert to have a conversion focused design. Okay. So, here's a small little we just mocked something up real easily just to show like we took the brand colors and then we built more of like a conversion focus design. This is just a little template. This is obviously not uh an end uh final outcome, but just to show you what a conversion focused design looks like. It looks a little more like this. So, you see the difference between this and this. This one clearly has like the calls to action are very prominent. They really stand out. We're maintaining the same kind of color scheme, but you'll notice even like the menu is specifically structured for, you know, for conversions, right? We're focusing on the things that the users really care about, which is fix my air conditioning, you know, my fix my furnace or my heating uh unit, and then also uh indoor air quality, right? So, three different kind of core areas that an HVAC business might focus on. And this is actually pulled directly from a very, very well-known HVAC company in Los Angeles. This is the exact menu that they use and I love it. I think it's very beautiful because it has that faceted element too. So, it's going to all the individual service pages and I'll talk about what that looks like here in a second, but in general, we want to get the structure right. So, and then we've got calls to action in the menu. We've got a nice call to action above the form. We've got multiple calls to action here as well above the fold. And then we go down and we start to talk about our various uh service offerings. Now, one thing here that's really important is if we look at this page, we'll actually go into rankability and you can see we'll look at, you know, this is about a 13 rankability score. So, rankability is just determining the relevance of this page compared to the top competitors. So, when we look at the top competitors, they're very very optimized, right? They have really relevant pages. And so, if we want to be able to rank here, we need to also have a very relevant page. Okay? So, what I did is I had um we we built out some content here and you can see if we go and copy this content and throw it into rankability, you'll see that it's performing really well, right at the optimal score now. Okay, so this content just to really refine and make it more relevant. Notice the word count isn't crazy. It's still, you know, 587 words, but now it's really relevant, which just means we're hitting on all the important topics that we're supposed to be hitting on relative to the competitors. Okay, so we've got that part squared away and then we've got once again a very good design. We'd go and replace these images and you know make it all relevant to the business. But in general, this is what a conversion focus design really looks like. Okay, much more streamlined um and really designed to convert every attempt to convert every user that we can. So, if we say that, you know, this, let's say this website's converting sub 1%, if we can get it up to two or even 3%. That you're automatically going to start making more money with the same amount of traffic. So, improving design is really critical. Now, the question is, how do you actually go about doing this? Well, you can go and hire a web designer and then a web developer, and you'll pay5 to $10,000, sometimes more to build out a site like this. Okay? Um, and I know this because I have my own SAS company and I pay developers all the time and it's it it's a very big expense, okay? It's enormous how much we invest in our own software. Um, but I can tell you now there's never it's never been easier for someone to build a website. Uh, never been easier for someone to build an application. Okay? Because you have tools like Replet now. Okay? So, funny thing is this whole design here that I that you were looking at, I built 100% with Replet and it costs basically nothing. Um, in fact, I'll show you how much it costs because I'll go right over here and I'll show you my usage because I've got a few applications going right now and I'll show you how much this one application has cost me. So, we'll go over here to the agent and we'll look at HVAC Hero. So, it's had 21 checkpoints. Uh, each checkpoint is 25 cents. So 21 times 0.25. So it's $5. So it cost me $5 to build out this design here. And the functionality needs a lot more work. This is very, very basic right now. It needs a ton of work to get going. But just in general, $5 to create this. And I can tell you as someone who's spent hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of thousands of dollars, honestly, maybe millions of dollars at this point on web developers and web designers, I can tell you this is insane that you can do this for $5. Okay? Uh never before has this been possible. Um and so just to give you an idea, like I'm not a coder. I'm not a developer. I'm not a designer. I don't I'm don't have any of those skills. Okay? But one thing I can do is I can just keep hammering away at the AI. Just keep asking the same questions. Do it right. And once you have the foundation of what a good site looks like, you can you're you're off to the races. So I would highly recommend even if you're an agency, like play around with these tools. If you're a business owner and you're trying to figure out like how do I do this? Play around with these tools a little bit. I don't think you know if you're running an HBAC business, this is a lot of work even just using the AI, let alone, you know, trying to do this yourself. But I would still probably outsource it. But in general, like the technology is here so that we can move much faster and uh it's it's honestly pretty insane. So just take advantage of this and there's just no reason at this point that you know every business can build a very beautiful design that you know should convert ultimately. All right. So the next thing I want to do is think about what the site map is going to look like and ultimately what our content strategy is going to look like for this HBAC business. So, first thing I would highly recommend doing is just crawling your number one competitor. So, go into Screaming Frog, put your top competitor into Screaming Frog, and then go into the API, go to the HFS API, and then when you go to metrics, go down here and make sure you click keywords and traffic, and then run that analysis, and then export the report. And what we're looking at here is the final report that I exported into my Google sheet. Okay? And so there's a lot you can do here to kind of reverse engineer what they're doing. One of the things is you can actually scroll over and just see like what pages have attracted the most back links and ultimately see the stuff that's performed particularly well for them. But one of the the main reason why I like to do a crawl is because I want to see the types of pages that they have in the area that we're going after. So like for example, we're going after Plano. So, I went up here and I just filtered by Plano and I can see that they've got uh let's see how many pages they have. They've got 57 indexed pages that are specifically targeting Plano. Okay, so that gives us an idea like all right now we know we're going to have to build out some dedicated pages as well to kind of uh match the level of topic support that they have. Okay. So, one thing you can do is go and sort this by address and we can start to see the kind of clusters that they've built out. So right here we've got uh air conditioning. So we can kind of put that in one cluster. Uh we'll go down here and then we'll look at they've got commercial HVAC. That's another little cluster that we can build. And then we've got the heat pumps, right? Another once again another cluster of, you know, different service offerings that we can build out. We've got duckless systems here, another great one that we can go after. And they've even got some duck work related stuff as well here. Uh, and then finally, indoor air quality looks like another nice cluster that we could build out. And so you can start to see these different opportunities that exist in these different little pockets of clusters that we need to build out. These are different uh categories of services and you want to build these all out because each of these has different intent, right? Someone looking to get uh, you know, we'll go back here. someone looking to needs 24/7 emergency AC repair. Like if they're it's, you know, 1:00 at night and their AC goes off, they're they want to call up an HVAC business. Their mindset, their mentality, their intent is very different than someone who's just looking for some maintenance uh you know, their annual maintenance on their air conditioner, right? So you it's important to have dedicated pages based on different intent based on different uh different journey that that person is on as far as a sales cycle. So it's really important not just for SEO but it's also very important for conversion rates uh because if someone has an appropriate page that matches their intent they're more likely to convert. Okay? So look at your competitors to get a rough idea of what you should build. Now, don't copy them all the way. Just because they're doing well doesn't mean everything they're doing is perfect. Um, and so what I'm looking at is how do I take what they've done and and make it a little bit better. Okay. So, here's an example of this. So, I've already built a lot of this out just so you can kind of see, but I've already built out like the clusters that I would build for a business like this. Okay. So you can see I've got the AC, I've got commercial, I've got heat pumps, I've got furnace, and I've got duckless systems. So what we do is we build out the URL structures that we want to see. Um, this is this URL structure is what I would consider very aggressive. This is an aggressive URL structure. You don't have to be this aggressive. You could certainly go a much more uh let's say safer URL structure like this, which is just like doesn't really include the the core city in there. Uh, but I'm trying to get as much bang for my buck as possible and I want to build highly relevant pages so that way that I can lead with relevance and then I don't need as many links to make up that gap. Okay, so I want these pages to perform really really well right out of the gate. So we want to have a beautiful, highly relevant URL structure and then we have the focus of each of these. So, what I recommend doing is just building one little cluster at a time and focusing first on the commercial pages. Always start with your commercial pages. Get those squared away. Okay? And then you can see here I've got this categorized by the intent. So, there's many different types of intent, but just in general, you can put most of them into two categories, commercial, informational. Okay? You don't have to get into the weeds of different types of intent. Uh, and then the content type. So, these are all going to be pages. Okay? These are all static pages that you're going to put on your site. Um, and you know, just static HTML pages that should load super fast and should be highly crawable. Uh, and crawlability is paramount. You have to have pages that are super crawable, super indexable because not only is that important for Google's algorithms and crawlers, uh, but it's also very important for the large language models to crawl this content and crawl your website because that's going to help you get indexation in those platforms as well. Okay. Now, what we want to do is once we build all our commercial pages, and by the way, you can do this super super fast these days. This might seem like a lot of work because like basically I'm saying you need to build uh let's see, 25 commercial pages, but very simply, we can just take a keyword like this, emergency repair in Plano, Texas. I'll just go right into Rankability very simply, and we're just going to go to run an optimizer. So, we'll just go and run this emergency AC repair in Plano, Texas. And then we're just going to run an optimizer. Okay. And we'll just use the AI generated content. Normally I would uh you know get very very intense about this as far as the service page and kind of put my unique characteristics in here. But if you want to do this very quickly, you can just go to the brand, go to the about page and just pull some stuff like this. And um we'll go ahead and put this back in the prompt and make sure it's relevant relevant to this brand. And we'll put that stuff in here. And we'll make sure that this is relevant uh for who they are. And go ahead and just copy copy some of this over. And this will make sure that like it's it's being highly tailored to them and not just kind of general, which is what the AI can often do if you're not careful. Okay? So, you want to really give it some good inputs. Um, like I said, normally I would spend much more time on this, but just for the sake of this video, uh, this is what this is what we would do. So, this pro this prompt windows gives I think up to a thousand words. So, you can put a thousand words up here in here to train the AI on what you want that service page to look like. So, um, so yeah, so you build this out and then we just go ahead and generate it. And this usually takes anywhere between three to five minutes typically, but just depends on the complexity of the keyword. But we'll let this run while we're while we're going. Um, and so you could basically use the AI to build all these out uh to at least get your first draft and then you can go and uh you could go and you know ultimately have it edited and all that stuff. So typically the way that we're doing it is like we generate for commercial pages like this, we generate with AI with the first draft uh and then we have a human editor come in and edit that content a little bit and then it goes live on the site. Now, once again, good news is with like Replet, you can build out a template for all of these commercial pages. So, that generally looks the same, but then the content is different because it's a different intent, right? So, but you have this general template to use across every single page that's built to convert. Okay? So, that way you can kind of scale this out a little bit easier. So, anyway, those are the commercial pages. Then, what you want to be thinking about is how do we create content to support these commercial pages? So the way that I like to think about this is I'll pick one cluster. So for example, I'll pick just AC air conditioning and I'll think about all right, what are the types of content that we can build around these commercial pages that's going to help us build topic authority. Okay. Um but not only that, also act as linkbait. So there's kind of two different types of content you want to create for for local. One of them is localized content marketing assets, which means like creating content around our core service offerings and location. And then number two is content specifically engineered to attract backlinks. Okay? Because we know backlinks are very important. So what you're looking at here are some examples. So go ahead and hide this. And so this is an entire cluster that I built out very easily. 15 different assets that we can build to support our AC cluster. Okay. And what you'll see here is let's actually I'm going to filter this out. I'll take I'll take the commercial pages out of here. We'll just look at theformational content. You can see that we've got different types of of content. So we've got a bunch of linkbait. We've got some posts. So these would be blog posts that would go on the website itself. And then we've even got a video that we would post on YouTube. Okay, this is really really important. It's wide open on YouTube. Like if we go and look at the top competitors, uh just go and check this out. We'll look at HVAC company Plano. So HVAC company Plano and you'll see like, you know, we've got a video here that has 10 views. We've got video from four years ago. Uh this one's from 9 years ago. Four. So it's wide open. Wide open. if you were an if you were a serious uh HVAC company in Plano and you wanted to just like really take over YouTube, it would be like the easiest thing if you just had some decent videos that were super helpful. Um, but the key here to to success to being successful on YouTube and ultimately using it as a a brand awareness vehicle and ultimately being able to generate leads is localization. Like for example, like you wouldn't want to model a channel like mine. My channel is broad. it targets much broader SEO topics. Okay, so you wouldn't want to do this in the case of HV HVAC. You would want to target like huge HVAC topics. You don't want to do that because it's not going to generate leads locally. Okay, I sell the stuff that I sell in my business is national. So, I can go broad like this. But if I was just starting a uh let's say a St. Louis SEO agency, all of my content would be specific to St. Louis. Every single thing would be specific to St. Louis. is the same thing you want to do in the context of of Plano. Every single piece of content or you know video you publish should be relevant to Plano. Okay? And you can see a small example of this is like you know behind the scenes what happens during an AC installation in Plano. So you would just bring a camera and you would document a whole process of what it takes to install uh an AC. And this is really interesting for people to see because they not a lot of people know what happens like they they just don't. So it's informative and then when they say you know I actually do we actually do need the AC install. Who's that one guy I watched on YouTube right? Because it helps people know like and trust you and know like and trust generate sales. Video is very powerful. And I just did this is one video example. There's so many you can do but just the key point here is just notice we've got the key elements in here. We've got AC installation which is critical. We've got that kind of core topic and then we've got the core location. Okay, this is the this is the most critical piece of this process is to have that core location in here and the core topic. Okay, you have to have both. You don't want to just say what happens during AC installation. It's too broad. Want to have it specific to Plano. We want to build topic authority in the location where we can actually get leads and customers. Okay. And then from there we've got the linkbait. Okay. And the and the various posts, these posts once again are designed to, you know, act either as they can also act as link bait, but they're really designed to help you build proper topic localized topic authority. So, think of them more as content marketing. Like for example, um like if you had this one here, Plano's hottest days. Okay? You could go and market this, let's say, on Facebook specifically in the Plano area. Okay? Because what we're thinking about is not just not just like creating content just to kind of juice up the algorithms. We're creating content that's actually interesting for people that live in this area. Uh and the idea is that we can drive brand awareness which then hopefully some of that can translate to leads and customers. Okay, we're doing marketing. Think more about marketing. Don't think so much about how do we manipulate Google's algorithms or the large language models. It's just a waste of time. Just think about doing good marketing. Okay. Um, and so the kind of a good criteria along with that is like would you be willing to pay for ads to promote this topic? Right? And if the answer is yes, then you should pursue it. Okay. Now, let's go back look at rankability. All right. So, this one is officially done and we'll see how it did. And so, it generated uh about 1,600 words and it's already optimized, right? So, going back to earlier like make sure we're hitting on the core topics. You can see it's already hitting all the core topics that we need to hit. It does not need to be any more optimized than this. Uh this is very very optimized. And so what we would do is we take this draft uh we give it to an hand it off to an editor and they would go through and make it more human and you know humanize it much better and ultimately make it more readable. But this is like your first draft. This is what you can work with. Um honestly we have taken like drafts like this and just slapped them on the website and they do perform. But I wouldn't recommend that. I would recommend having a human come in and just add those nice little human touches. There's some gigs on Fiverr where you can do this uh that that humanize AI content. Um but I would not I would not use AI to humanize content. That's like an oxymoron. So I would make sure that you're using a human to humanize it. Uh it's really important. But just so you know how this works is pretty simple. Uh the way that it works is it pulls all of these topics here and creates the content based on those topics. So you know it's really really relevant. And then the word count is is uh based on the median word count for the competitors. So 1,200 to 2100. We go and look at the top competitors. We can see that some of them have pretty significant word counts right. So like Yelp obviously is a huge word count. But some of these other ones 2200 words, 1100,600. So what the AI will do uh and and the way that our systems work on the back end is it will find that kind of like sweet spot for word count and it will create the content based on that. Okay. So this is how you can go and build out these commercial pages very very quickly. Okay. Now next thing I want to show you is on the link bait side. So going back to we were talking about earlier about replet. You can build a lot of this linkbait with replet. All right. So I'll show you a quick example of this. Um this is a prompt. So, the way that I do this personally is I use chat GBT. I've been using 4.1 recently. It's been really, really good for this, but basically you can have chat GBT build the prompt for you. Okay, so here's an example. Create a replet project to create linkbait for an HVAC company in Plano for this topic. So, I just took the topic uh that we generated over there. By the way, all of these topics here, every single one was generated with chat GBT. So, I didn't come up with any of these topics. These were all generated with chat GBT. You can just simply go in and say, uh, give me 10 linkbait ideas for an HVAC company in Plano, Texas. Okay, so start with linkbait. Then say, give me 10, uh, localized content marketing ideas for an HVAC company in Plano, Texas. Now, I would get more specific and not just say HVAC in this context. I would say uh that are specific to air conditioning or specific to furnaces or specific to air quality, right? So that way you can get really really focused. Don't just go very broad HVAC. Uh the more focused your link bait is or your content is, the better it will likely perform. And the way to think about is just like supporting that category. So notice these are all specific to air conditioning. So once you get a good set of those, then move on to furnace and then move on to air quality and duck work, whatever. Okay. So then you take one of these topics uh and then we're going to create this little have chat GBT create the prompt for us for replet. Okay. And so what it did is it built out the whole little project for us. And so all you have to do is just take this and literally like I will just copy this over uh and it'll even give you a way to copy it like this. and then just go into replet and you paste this in and you can do the auto but typically modern web app is what it's going to build and you got to do some other kind of custom stuff. We won't get into the logistics of this. It can be quite complex but just for the sake of doing this uh we'll just kind of run through this real quickly. Okay, so we'll start building this and we'll get this rolling and you'll see how quickly it can build something that's honestly pretty decent, which is kind of insane how quickly it can do it. Okay. So, it's going to go ahead and start building this out. And while it's doing it, we'll we'll continue on this this process. Okay. So, once we've done all this, this is the way we got to be thinking about the content strategy. All right. So, you can see just if we do with the commercial content and theformational content, we're looking at a solid like, you know, nearly 40 40 assets that we're going to build on this website. And honestly, with all the technology that we have now, you could probably build this out maybe in like a month, maybe two months at this point. Okay. And do I recommend a business owner trying to do this all themselves? Definitely not. It's still a ton of work, especially working with Replet. I mean, I built out a whole application on Replet. This is collect.com is like a little experiment that I built out. This has taken so much work to get to this point, right? like an incredible amount of work. Um, and you know, I don't think it's a wise decision for an HBAC business owner to be spending their time tweaking and dorking dorking out about all this stuff here. Trust me, it takes so much effort to get a fully functional application going. But for the stuff that's much more simple like a a linkbait type of thing, you could probably get it rolling pretty quickly. So, what what it will do here is it will give you kind of initial plan and it will try to add a bunch of Do not add anything. Okay, this is critical. Do not give the AI more to work with. Keep it focused. Uh I made this mistake and I tried to give it too much and then it just ends up breaking and hallucinating. So just don't do that. Just approve the plan and then let it go. Okay? Let it do its one thing that you asked it to do first. Then you can kind of build upon that over time. But um but it's it will start building this out pretty quickly and then this little visual window you can see it you know kind of developing over time. Okay. So, we building out all our content. So, what's the next step? Once we build all this out, what do we do? Okay. Well, you know that we have to go and actually promote. We have to go like I think a lot of people forget with content marketing, they they get the content part, but they forgot the marketing part. So, just creating content is not marketing, right? You have to you when you create content, you have to go and market that content. So, of course, you can just, you know, run some paid ads for a lot of this stuff. Like all of these types of pages are totally suitable for running ads directly in your local area. So you like specifically on Facebook and Instagram. Uh you can run ads for these and it could be very very effective for driving leads and sales. Like it is actually that simple. Just run Facebook ads to it and that could actually work. Um but the other thing we want to be thinking about is uh actually driving links to the website. Okay. So on the local level, we want to be thinking more about localized link opportunities. So once again, uh man, I'm just throwing a lot of AI stuff at you today, but the one that I've been using recently is Google Gemini. Okay? And the reason is because Gemini is of course a Google product and within chat GBT you can do deep research. Okay? So you go here, click on tools and you can do uh run deep research and it does very very well. I use it all the time. Um, it's very good. But there's one advantage uh, well actually one disadvantage for chat GBT and one advantage for Google. The disadvantage for chat GBT is that it it uh, Google tries to block it from crawling its index and crawling its results. So it typically has to rely on crawling the internet as a whole and using you know Bing and Duck.go to, you know, crawl those results. And as we know the traditional search results in Bing and Duck.Go go are not as good as Google in general. Okay. Um, and Google has more data and a bigger index and all that stuff. So, the advantage of using Gemini, I don't use Gemini for a lot of stuff. I I I'm like 99% a chat GBT user, but specifically for this one function, which is deep research, it's pretty hard to beat. It's pretty incredible. So basically what you want to do for a business like this is I'll just say you know find a hundred uh local donation sponsorship opportunities specifically for an HBAC company in Plano, Texas. And then it will go and do its thing. Okay? And then it will generate like this crazy super in-depth report. So you don't need to read through all this, but basically what you can do is see it's going to give you all of the opportunities that ex exist. So Plano Parks and Recreation, you know, all this stuff. Okay? and you go down here and then it will actually give you the full list. Okay? And just to give you some perspective, we used to do this manually. We used to go into Google and prospect and final and it was so timeconuming. I mean it was like I felt bad even assigning it to a team member because just such it's so much work and now it it's no work. You just use this and it will find 90% of the opportunities that exist essentially. And you can see it puts it into a nice little table and now your team member, whoever you're working with can go and pursue these opportunities. Okay? And you can see like even even costs and phone numbers and everything. Now be careful because this is still AI and it could hallucinate, right? Like there could be some hallucinations happening right here. Like for example, if we take this URL, it will make things up. This may not even be a real URL. We can go and test, but it's possible it's not even a real URL. Now, it actually is. This one actually worked, believe it or not. But still, just be careful. You got to do a little bit of factchecking because it's not always accurate, but in general, this is a lot faster than going doing this yourself. Okay? So, just use these this these tools to your advantage. Whether you're an agency or a business owner, just use these. It's so much faster, so much more efficient, which helps get results a lot quicker. And look at this. I mean, this is enough. There's enough work here for a few months just to do outreach in the local area. And I'm telling you, you don't need a lot of links like to rank for this particular keyword. We can even see, I'll show you uh on my little dock I got going here. We'll just look at the uh the keyword and we'll look in hres. It's not super competitive, okay? Like, you know, it looks it looks competitive. You know, it's 39 roughly. But if you want to see real competition, go down here and just look at the DR. Okay? So, right here, we've got a 17 and we've got these guys down here that have a zero and these guys that have a one. Okay, these are weak websites. these two weak websites you could absolutely come in here and beat very easily with just some very focused link building. You could easily beat these guys no problem. Um, and so you don't need a massive amount of links. In fact, when you look at the top competitors, no one has like enormous amounts of referring domains. Like these guys here have the most 376, which is that's pretty significant, but even then it's tiny in comparison to some other industries, right? So you can narrow this gap quite easily and just focus on highly relevant link opportunities in the local area. You'll have plenty to work with there. Um and that'll keep you busy for a long time. Okay. So do that first. Focus on donation opportunities. And then what you want to do is this is just a little, you know, kind of fun prompt you can use. Go down here and then just say like pretend you're an HVAC company in Plano. What other local opportunities can you find us that will help us drive brand awareness, leads, and customers? For example, local news, blogs, newsletters, etc. Okay, so then basically the AI will act like it's, you know, one of your team members. Okay, and you can see once again, incredible work that it does. Look at all these opportunities for local news and publications. These should be things that you're absolutely going and trying to get visibility on. Um, and this is all the stuff that you should be doing, all localized. And you can see it's beautiful. There's so much opportunity here. Um, it's right, it's just prime for the taking if you're willing to do it. If you're willing to go out there and outreach and, uh, build relationships, it's right here. Okay? And this is why like one of the most important things right now is having kind of like a founder business because if you're the founder, you can go and and be the person who appears in the guest posting, who appears on the podcast, who goes and contributes to the communities and gives value and drives those people back to your business. So the founder like model is incredibly powerful right now. Uh and I just cannot stress it enough. Don't try to like push this off to someone else. Like be a part of the you are the marketing. Okay, you are the marketing. There's overwhelming evidence of this. Uh so many businesses that are founder led that are so successful. Um and it doesn't mean you you have to be this way forever, but at least when you're in these early stages, you should be the you should be the driving force behind this. Okay. Uh, and then a small example here, uh, you know, assuming this the business that we're looking at here looks like they're kind of like a, you know, maybe a one-man kind of smaller team. So, you can kind of refine the prioritization. So, I said prioritize for a small new HBAC company with a small marketing budget. And then, of course, it can kind of give this to you in tiers, okay? A lot of the stuff I already talked about today. Now, let's go back to Replet and see how it did. And it built out uh a very simple tool, okay? And yeah, it's it's got some issues. It's not centered for whatever reason. Um, but it looks like it is actually somewhat functional to a certain extent. So, we'll just see if it's actually like working. Okay. Uh, without any intervention and we'll just see. Oh, and that's why it's like that cuz it actually generated uh it needed a place to generate the result. Okay. So, you know, like I said, this cost us maybe 25 cents. I think about 25 cents to build out a free piece of link bait that would have cost and I can tell you from experience I've reached out to many contractors before to build out linkbait and a project like this they'll quote you 10 grand 10 grand for a project like this uh 5 10 grand typically just for a small little tool that does one little thing um they'll you'll get quoted a lot okay so and you can see like this is for a first version. Pretty impressive. Pretty impressive. Okay, so just to give you an example, like take advantage of this. This is this has never been possible before. Uh and you can tell I'm very bullish about it. And by the way, I'm not an affiliate of Replet or anything. Like I get no benefit of telling you about this. There's other tools out there. Use the other ones. I don't care. Just use them in general because they're so freaking awesome. Um, and the the uh the gatekeeping is over when it comes to creating new things like this because it used to be like you had to be a developer, you had to be highly technically skilled to do anything like this. Not so much anymore. Uh, not so much as long as you got the right foundation to work with. So anyway, take advantage of this and build this out. Um, and lastly, the last thing I'll say about this is like there is one huge advantage you could use if you wanted to, and it is what I call like the insurance policy, but you can go over here, and I'll show you real quickly. Just go into instant domain search. And typically what I'm doing is I'm looking to see if there's any um opportunity for a keyword-rich domain. I'm just telling you if you get a DBA doing business as and you are, you know, Plano HVAC company and you also own Plano HVAC company.com and then you do all the stuff that I told you to do today, you're going to crush everyone. uh that little review gap that I showed earlier, like that 1500 reviews that the competitor has, you don't even need to get that many reviews because Google really shows a a heavy preference for keywordrich businesses because Google is a relevance machine. It is a relevance machine. All of these platforms that I've talked about today, they are relevance machines, right? All of them. Um all of the large language models we can see here uh Google uh Google AI mode with chat GBT, Perplexity, Claude, DeepSeek, uh Google itself, uh YouTube, Tik Tok, all of them, every single one is a relevance machine. And no matter what what goes on, technology changes, all this stuff is always moving and changing. The thing that is never going to change is relevance. Relevance is the pillar of success in digital marketing. And the more relevant you can be, the better you're going to perform across all these platforms. So, hope that helps.