Title: The Best AI Search Visibility Tools Do This...
Video ID: CiC0THHtVdU
Published: 2025-09-18T17:24:53Z
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CiC0THHtVdU

---

So, what are the best AI search rank tracking and visibility tools right now? Well, there are hundreds of tools to pick from at this point. And I just want to be clear, you can track your brand performance for commercial queries like best baseball cleats for pitchers. Those types of queries, you can track it manually. You can go and create accounts across all the AI platforms, Shaq, GBT, Perplexity, Claude, Grock, and you can run these prompts manually and start to see how your brand is performing. And then you can put it into a a Google sheet template and you can feed that into Looker Studio and get a pretty good idea of your overall AI search performance uh as far as your brand goes. But when you're thinking about investing in a tool, you need the tool needs to be able to do a couple of things. Number one, it needs to track your pure mentions. So when you run your prompts, is our brand mentioned? Yes or no? Very simple. Number two, where do we rank within that AI generated response? that really matters a lot because if we're number 10, we're not going to get as much visibility unless, you know, compared if we're number one as far as the recommendation from the AI. Okay? So, there's going to be a very distinct difference between those those positions. And then on top of, we want to look at the overall share of voice. So, you don't want to just look at any one prompt. You want to do what I'm calling prompt buckets. So, you want to get, you know, 15, 20, maybe even as many as 50 prompts related to your product or service that are commercial. very important that they're commercial related, commercial intent, not informational intent. And what you want to do is see how is our brand appearing in all of this bucket of of prompts. And then you can get a percentage and say, okay, we appear in uh 15% of these prompts, right? So that gives us a place to work with. And then from there, we can actually start to measure that and say, okay, in a month from now, we'd like to be in 20% of these. And then in a year from now, we'd like to be in 40% of these AI generated responses. Okay. So when it comes to manipulating these responses, it's not that simple because there's two things that are happening. Number one, you have the core training data that the AI platforms use. So they once they have that cut off date for their training, you cannot influence the the static corpus data. Okay? You cannot influence it. It's done. But what you can do is you can influence the future training. So that means right now is the best time to start trying to influence these models. And the way you influence it is through none other than SEO. Okay, that's really the best way to do it. But most importantly, if you're selling uh products or services, you need to figure out what are the platforms that feed into these LLMs the most that they use for their training. And a lot of review platforms are very very popular. So getting more reviews, getting more thirdparty validation is one of the biggest influencing mechanisms that we can play with. So when it comes to best AI search tracking tools, those are the things you want to you want to track is are we appearing in the AI generated response where what is our position and what is our overall share of voice across this bucket of prompts.