Title: Gotch SEO Academy is now Search OS
Video ID: dI-fhni8L00
Published: 2025-10-14T11:37:23Z
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dI-fhni8L00

---

So today I'm going to be talking about why I'm shutting Gotch SEO down after over 10 years of working on this business. Now I started Gotch SEO in 2013 and I want to kind of walk you through what happened from that point all the way up until now and why it all matters. All these pieces coming together. And the truth is this is basically going to be, you know, 12 years give or take uh of my career condensed into, you know, a very short video here. So, let's just get right into it and I'm going to explain uh you know why I shut this down and what you know what we're going to be doing going forward. So, rewind the clock to 2011. I was uh on the path to become a lawyer and I was going I had already signed up for the ELSAT. I was already starting to study for the ELSAT and I actually ended up taking the ELSAT. So, I was pretty much on a path to become a lawyer. Uh, but little did my family know, I actually wanted to figure out how to make money online. And I really loved the internet in general. And I actually, you know, during high school, instead of working on my homework, I would play Counterstrike and I would play data feed and I would play Warcraft. And I enjoyed that a lot more. I just loved the internet. And I always had this dream to like make money online so I could obviously work from anywhere, you know, have that freedom. And so one of the first techniques that I used was just doing paid surveys. And so this is a little screenshot from 2011 when I made a whopping $5 from doing paid surveys. I would just click in my dorm room, you know, constantly just doing these paid surveys. And I don't think I ever got paid out. So I spent like a month just doing paid surveys and made literally no money at all. All right. Then I finally discovered this program and it was called Web Colleagues. Okay. And if you've seen any of my interviews in the past, uh this was the one that, you know, kind of got me my start. So, I invested this $47 and this felt like a million dollars at the time cuz I was so, you know, broke college student. So, I I made that commitment. I did it and what it did is it taught me that one of the best ways to make money online was to start a blog. So, at the time I had very little experience in anything except for playing baseball. I did know how to play baseball. I did know how to throw a baseball. So, I was like, "All right, I think I could start a blog about baseball pitching." So, this is the actual blog. Funny enough, I actually um I spelled the the domain wrong. So, it was actually the olitmmitpitcher.com and it took me about 6 months to finally realize this and I'm like, "Oh, okay." Uh so, I you know, I totally misspelled it and the crazy thing is it still worked. Okay, so I ended up building this site and this site ended up being like the origin story of me finding SEO. Okay, I I was creating tons of content and you know, couldn't get any traffic. Eventually, I went back to Google and discovered this thing of SEO and I I went all in on this website. Actually ended up selling this website to an MLB pitcher, a former MLB player. Um, so it kind of came full circle. It's kind of cool. But I then just, you know, started creating niche site after niche site just to refine my SEO skills. And what I discovered was that like creating niche sites is cool and making affiliate income was all, you know, nice and all, but what I actually really found a passion for was just this concept of SEO. I genuinely have and to this day still have a huge passion for it. And even back then, I knew I was like, I could do this forever. I love this. And then uh I started following this guy named Alex Becker. Okay? And he Alex is way more popular now than he was back then. Okay? But at this time, he was, you know, one of the people I followed in the SEO industry, and he had a website called SourceWave. And um, you know, say what you want, but I I'm always going to give credit to people that help me. And so, Alex back then, it wasn't necessarily like, you know, the SEO stuff. Yeah, that helped. And it was a little gray hat, maybe borderline black hat stuff that, you know, he was pushing, but but it wasn't really that uh that that stuck with me or helped me, you know, go to the next level. It was him just constantly focusing on taking action. Okay? And he would always stress that that you have to take action. And you know, I had no entrepreneurial experience. So hearing someone saying that and seeing how successful he was being, uh, it motivated me to be, you know, to be better and to try to be a better entrepreneur. So, and one of the biggest things that he was teaching back then was to start an SEO agency to sell SEO services to businesses. Okay? So, you help the businesses get better results and they keep paying you. Okay? It's a very simple formula. So, as a result, I went and registered in 2013 got goseo.com. Okay? And you know, I did one year. I wasn't too sure it was going to work, but I did register gosho.com. Okay? And this is the beginning. Now, just to rewind, I had graduated in 2012. So, from 2012 until now, a little bit further on, I was just working like a bunch of security jobs, just trying to make some money. Uh, you know, I was stressing out about my Netflix subscription. Uh, but I still made this commitment. And then something cool happened in hindsight was I got laid off from my my primary security job. And this was kind of the situation at the time. Okay, you know, looking back, this is my, you know, I've got my really cool uh Chevy Malibu here uh in 2013. But, you know, I was $40,000 in debt. Uh, I had zero clients and all I had was a credit card with a $500 limit. I had not been building up my credit. Okay? I just had this credit card that a $500 limit and that was it. So, I made a crazy decision at this point that I was going to, you know what? I'm just going to pack everything up and I'm going to move to St. Louis and I'm going to be with my girlfriend at the time, now my wife of almost 10 years, uh, and I'm just going to go and pursue this this career of going into the SEO industry. So, I did that and I I got to St. Louis. I packed you I basically just had enough stuff to pack up my car. So, I drove to St. Louis and I started applying for every single SEO job that exists uh here in St. Louis. Every single agency uh that I could find. I would I was applying I was applying every job I could try to find. Um and I only got one one reply and I got one interview and I did not get that job. So, you know, I was kind of left, you know, to to make a decision here was like, okay, do I just keep like applying for jobs or what do I do? I I don't want to be living in my mother-in-law's house for the rest of my life. So, what I decided to do, I was like, you know what? I need to make I need to make money. So, I'm going to go and just start trying to get clients. Okay. So, that's when I launched uh gotchao.com. So, this is in 2013. You can go back and look at archive.org. This is what it looked like. Very embarrassing copy website, not so good. Uh but this was the beginning. And this actually started to work. Okay. And for me, I had very very simple goals back then. I didn't have like I want to build a million-dollar business. Like I didn't even care about that. All I care I had two goals at the time. Number one, make enough money just to get out of my mother-in-law's house so I could get into an apartment and be good to go. And then a whopping $3,000 per month. This was my goal. If I get to $3,000 per month, I will be rich. Okay? Because that's basically enough to cover my expenses, you know, live a decent life. Um and you know, that that was my goal. I had really really tiny goals. And so then I just spent every waking moment applying to every single Craigslist ad that existed. Okay? And these are the actual, you know, don't the don't judge the copy at this time. Don't judge this, you know, strategy. Um, but this was this is what I was doing, right? So I didn't the only experience I had at the time was working on my own website. So I would use that as my leverage in these in these applications. I did hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of these applications on Craigslist in the gig section. Uh, and then I started to actually land some clients and these clients paid me anywhere between uh, you know, in this case $167 a month, $250 a month. I had maybe one paying me $500 a month. And that's like, you know, how was working for quite some time. Really, really cheap retainers. And then uh, in 2014 when I fully committed to this, I actually ended up making uh, over $100,000 in profit. Okay? And that was just from just like blanketing everything I could trying to get clients from, you know, any place that I could. And uh ended up making more money than ever in my entire life. So, and by, you know, by today's standards, this isn't very much money. I'd be very concerned if I was making this little. But but the point is is like at the time that was a ton of money to me personally. Okay. So then as I started to go deeper and deeper into this agency where eventually I started getting checks like this and this is, you know, I took a little, you know, little picture of it. Uh, you know, $7,500 for one SEO campaign. And that was like insane how much money uh, you know, back then that was. And so this is all I did from 2013 to 2015. I just did only agencies. That that's the only uh form of monetization that I did. Okay. Okay. And now I'm going to talk about the most important part here is in 2015 I decided okay uh I you know I like the agency thing. It's it's cool. It's good for cash flow. But I kind of saw that it was going to be really really hard to scale. And I didn't really necessarily want to do services my entire life. And I always wanted to teach. Okay. That was something I wanted to do. I wanted to you know sell my own training program. So I launched Gotch SEO 1.0 in 2015. Okay. and I got a whopping five sales. Okay? And there's many reasons for that. Number one, uh this is a completely textbased course. So, I was so afraid of video that I just would not get behind a camera. And the real reason is because we actually I signed up for the Yelp partner program. They came to my apartment at the time and I recorded this video. Like they came and I thought it was going to be like this well produced, you know, production and there's going to be a teleprompter and it was going to be like really good like that. But the guy just came with the camera, he's like, "All right, you ready? Like, here you go." Like, "Talk about your business." And I was like, "Um, okay." And so I just, you know, word vomited uh something about, you know, gotcha SEO at the time. It was embarrassing. And so I basically said at that point, I'm never going to record video. Like I made that declaration that I would never do it. And so that was the catalyst to this. It's like, all right, I'm going to I want to do the training thing, but I can't do video because I'm too afraid of that. So I'm going to do this textbased course. And we can see from the results it wasn't exactly a great idea. Okay. And then I decided finally I'm like, "Okay, I got to get on video." All right. I knew YouTube was huge already. I'd been watching YouTube since high school. I knew YouTube was already big. Video was going to be enormous. So I was like, "All right, I got to just get over this and I got to start recording some videos." So what happened is I comp I decided to record uh it ended up being me like 120 videos for this version of the academy. And they I didn't show my face. It was just purely over the shoulder and it was just me on my computer like, "Hey, here's how to go start a screaming frog crawl and here's how to do all this." I was just basically explaining how to do SEO, not showing my face. And uh that gave me a lot of experience and a lot of courage to go and start a YouTube channel, okay? Which I started in 2017. So uh and as you can tell, uh it was pretty rough. This is like the first time that I showed my face uh to the public on a video. Okay. And uh not exactly the best quality, but I was proud that I actually just went and did it. Okay. And then you can tell the difference now. Like this is one of my most recent videos. We're not talking significantly different here, but you can tell like a little bit more upgraded, a little bit better production quality, you know, just slightly better. Okay. And I'm sure my delivery is probably a little bit less awkward as well. Okay. But I still keep this video up just as a reference point to make sure that I'm I'm continuing to see like how much further I'm getting away from this this beginning. I want to see that I'm getting better, right? And that's that's an important thing. A lot of people go and delete their old videos because they're embarrassed by them. You should you should be embarrassed by them, but you should keep them. They are a reference point. They are a benchmark. Okay? So then from there, the the GSA 2.0, yes, I recorded videos, but they were pretty terrible. Okay? I was literally just recording into the computer microphone and as you know that's not great. Okay, so like right now I'm recording into a Yeti microphone. It's coming through a lot more clearly. So I actually went through and I re-recorded uh all of the videos. So hundreds of videos I re-recorded again and then relaunched uh Gotcha Academy 3.0 with good audio. Uh I don't actually think I showed my face in that one either. So it's over the shoulder presentation style type of thing. Okay. So then this was the next kind of big pivot point here was with 3.0 I actually made six figures in one week selling that program which was crazy. Uh but there was a problem and the problem was I started to dig into the analytics one day and I'm like why? Like I I saw that like the large majority of people weren't actually finishing the training and that made me so sad because I was like whoa if like if you finish the training you will be successful at SEO. Like I was so sure of that that whoever went through the training and they took action they would see they would see results right and so I was like why are people not going through the training like I invested so much time in this you know you you you think that people would want to go through right but come to find out this is quite common it's about 12% is the median completion rate uh for people who go through through programs. Okay only 12% of people 12 out of a 100red actually finish a course. Okay that's pretty pretty sad. And so instead of me just saying, "Oh, well, I guess that's the way it is." Um, I was like, "No, I want to fix this. I want people to go through the training because if they go through the training, they will be successful and I know that. And if they go through the training and they take action, they will see the result." So then one day I was just, you know, doing my SEO thing and I stumbled upon this really weird blog. Okay? And this weird blog, uh, you know, weird in the context of like the copywriting and I'm like, "Wow." cuz like very rarely do I see copy that stops me in my tracks and I'm like whoa this cop is like crazy so good so persuasive uh so engaging and I was like who is this guy and so is the guy in the his name is Simon and this is actually my partner now and um so we you know I I found him somehow and I think it was on LinkedIn and I messaged him on LinkedIn like hey Simon would you just want to jump on a call and just like geek out about SEO so we jumped on a call um and we started talking about SEO, talking about the academy, talking about the situation. He was already working for another uh training program. So that was it. And then you know 21 2021 came around and uh Simon reached back out and we jumped on a call again and we just made a decision like listen uh let's do this academy thing but let's do it the right way. Okay. And thanks to Simon, like all credit goes to Simon, uh that he told me that the the program that he was a part of, what they did was they started doing coaching, right? Coaching. And so instead of just being a training program, you you add pieces to it to make it a much more engaging experience. Okay? And this led to GSA 4.0. Okay? So these three versions were all just pure course which basically is like okay you sign up for the course it's up to you to do it right good luck that's basically what it was right and the material was perfectly actual perfectly helpful but you can't just like hope that people get results you got to give them the tools and the resources to be able to do it so this is why we added the uh community this is a customuilt platform and then the coaching calls okay and I cannot stress it enough that these coaching calls If you go and look at our reviews, you'll see that like this is what makes this program are these coaching calls. So, twice a week since 2021, I've missed a few going to Disney World and, you know, maybe not feeling well here and there. Um, but but almost 500 of these I've done. So, almost 500 coaching calls I've showed up and I've helped the members of this program. And the the outcome of this is just like the proof is in the pudding. Okay, we see the reviews over 100 reviews. Uh, we have a 9.6 NPS score. But most importantly, if we go back to the original thing I said right here, which is that 12% completion rate. People who go through our program now, we have an 80% completion rate. Okay? Now, why is that? Because no one ever feels like they're stuck. No one ever feels like they don't know, you know, they don't have anyone to ask any questions to. We give them everything they need to succeed. I can't go to their computer and type for them. I can actually physically do the work for them, but I can give them every possible resource that they need to succeed. Okay? And that's what we did. And that's obviously uh you know why we've been able to to get to this point. And then so finally, you know, when good old chat GBT came around, I knew I needed to make another shift. Okay. And that's why in uh 2023 I decided to revise the SEO expert certification to make it completely AIcentric. Now at that time it was just refining the SEO processes to leverage AI to do a lot of the work. Okay, so that was the big the big change and you can see right here, you know, we're talking about cutting uh you know, cutting your SEO time in half and really just focused on uh streamlining your SEO efforts and that's still great. Okay, but the question is is like why, you know, we have a program that's totally successful. Why would I shut it down? Okay, like this doesn't seem to make very much sense. Uh, but let's let's talk about that. Okay, so Gotcha SEO Academy, the like it's not so much uh that uh we're stopping operations, it's just we're making a branding switch. Okay, let's just be honest here. It's now Rankability Academy. And there's a couple reasons for this. First of all, if you're a part of the academy and you're watching this, you're unaffected. Nothing is changing for you. It's exactly the same. It's just a different name. That's it. Okay? And one of the biggest shifts here is a focusing more on the situation that we're currently in with with SEO and AI search. Okay? And these are the four biggest pieces that this program is all about, right? Search engine optimization, which is the one we all know, ranking in traditional search results, okay? which still matters by the way for AI. Okay. Uh AI search optimization there is some unique characteristics that we need to consider in chat GBT and Gemini and perplexity. Okay, that's a separate vehicle. It's we got to focus in on these platforms and some of their unique characteristics although they have a lot of similarities. AI automation agents. Okay, right now I am using agents and I'm using tons of automation to do SEO. Okay, and I want I'm going to be sharing that how to do that in the academy. And then the search everywhere optimization, okay, which I think is the true definition of SEO at this point, which is ranking in traditional search, ranking on the AI chat platforms, and then ranking on other platforms like YouTube or Reddit or Amazon, whatever it may be based on your situation, okay? And that's really, really important. But in addition to that, all of these other things are still a part of the academy. Still doing the twice a week coaching, still private community. We're going to be doing Inerson masterminds and of course the systems. Okay? So nothing has changed. It's just the name. And I want to make that very clear. But there's a couple key points here. What we discovered is, and this is the big one of the biggest reasons for this change, okay? Is we found that people who are in the academy uh are most successful when they're also using rankability and people who use rankability are most successful with rankability when they're a part of the academy. So there's a synergy between these two things. And we found that our most successful clients are the ones that are using both. Now, of course, I'm going to say that, right? I'm going to be the, you know, yeah, I'm the CEO of this business. I'm going to say yes, you should use both. Okay. Yes. But it is it is true. Okay. Because and there's a very simple reason. There's a lot of people that go and sign up for the Rankability software. Okay. They go and sign up and they get in there and like, whoa, this is super powerful. but they just don't have the underlying systems in place to execute consistently every single week. Okay? And if you don't have the systems in place, you can't use the software to its fullest capability. So that's why the systems are the foundational layer that you need. You need to have the systems, you need to have the processes, and the software is like the nitrous, right? It's it's the uh the fuel you throw on the fire to accelerate your performance, to accelerate your results. Okay? So, you need both. You can't just do one or the other. And the same with the academy. You could certainly learn the systems, but you're going to go a lot slower if you don't leverage this powerful software, right? So, they work together. And this is one of the biggest reasons because now we know these things work together so well. And so, we're going to be focused on both of these components. Okay? It's really, really important. So, we don't want them as separate entities because they work together in a synergistic way. Okay? And then most importantly, the AI search opportunity is absolutely massive. And if you haven't already shifted some of the things that you're doing, you are behind right now. I'm telling you this right now. If you have not shifted to using AI, number one, in your SEO campaigns, and number two, understanding these AI platforms, you better start doing it ASAP. Because I'm telling you, the people that are already doing it, they've already been doing it for years at this point. I mean, it's absolutely mind-blowing. The Chat GBT came out uh in November 2022. Okay, that's a long time. We're talking many, many years now at this point that it's been here for you to play with. It's been here for you to leverage. Okay, and even prior to that, I was using Jasper to create AI content. Okay, so I was even doing it in 20 2021 as far back. I think you're using GPT3 at that time. Okay. So, you got to jump on this. I don't it doesn't matter whether you use our stuff or anyone else. I'm just saying you need to jump on this AI search opportunity. And for me, uh I view this as the one of the biggest moments of my entire career. Honestly, and I know that's dramatic, but the feeling I have every single day is the feeling I had when I discovered SEO for the first time. When I discovered SEO, I was like, "This is the most mind-blowing thing I've ever seen." Okay? Like, I can actually get traffic and I can build a business if I just harness and master this one skill. And I saw the opportunity. And then right now, it's a I feel the same exact way. This opportunity is huge, not just for AI search, but AI in general. Uh, you know, these types of opportunities. This is like if you were, you know, you were early when the internet came along, right? like I do believe it is that powerful of an opportunity. Um, and there's been a lot of things that have happened since then, but I think this truly is like internet level type of opportunity. And I there's going to be a blood bath here soon as far as the bubble, but that's not what really is going to make the difference. It's the when when everything settles down, you'll find out who uh was doing good work. Okay? And the truth is this opportunity, no matter what the size of the bubble, doesn't make a difference because it's not going away. this is right now and it's only going to accelerate even further and that's why we are all in on our software. Okay, we're all in on this concept of AI SEO and AI search optimization. But more importantly, at the end of the day for us, this is really about search everywhere optimization. And I have a vision for where I want to go with this. Um, and I I can't share the entire vision, but I just want to say that uh my my dream is that this software allows you to optimize across multiple platforms, okay? And we're already putting in the play the the pieces in place for that. Okay? I'm not going to pitch Rankability right now. If you want to try it, there's a free trial, no pitch, okay? But more importantly, Rankability is way bigger than me. At the end of the day, I'm here to build a real company. I want to build a company that's going to outlast me, right? and whether it gets acquired by then or whatever it may be. But the point is build a company that we're actually proud of. A company that we we we jump out of bed to want to work on. Okay? And that's what Rankability is to me. I feel that way every single day. Like I don't even want to go to bed. I'm so excited to work on Rankability. Okay. But I got to get some sleep cuz sleep's important. So I got to go to bed. You know, I've got family. Got to be with the family. Got my family time locked in there. Uh, but aside from those times, rankability is all that's on my mind all the time. Okay? And I just I'm I'm so excited about what we're building. Okay? And more importantly, this is just more of an entrepreneurial lesson, something I've had to retrain myself so many times that your energy split like this is very, very bad. Okay? If you're trying to build a business and you're doing agency and you're doing writing books and you're doing uh software and you're doing uh training and you're and you got 50 different things that you're doing and they're different brands and it just causes a lot of friction. Okay? And yes, you can be successful that way. I've built a million dollar per year business, you know, kind of doing many different things, but I I want to build a much bigger business than that. I want to build a much bigger company than that and uh this is not this is not going to work. What's going to work is this okay one focus on one company and that's what I'm doing. This is you know this is the moment uh you know this last 12 years that I've been doing gotcha SEO this next 10 years or whatever it may be is rankability and and that's it singular focus rankability rankability academy anything related to this brand. All right so now let's talk about reality of running a SAS company. Okay. So, uh my partner and I, Simon, we decided in 2022 that we were going to start rank building. Okay. And so from that moment, most of the the money that we've made from our other businesses, we've basically just plowed into this software. Okay? We're completely bootstrapped. So, we've just plowed it into the software. And between the two of us, we've invested $639,000. Now, I always like to joke about this because uh people ask like, "Oh my gosh, like that's crazy." And I'll just say like, "Yeah, I could have literally bought a Lambo uh for that amount." Okay? Like, I could have purchased the Lamborghini uh you know, based on the investment that we've put into Rankability. But the good news is I don't care about that type of stuff at all. And it's also even better that my partner Simon doesn't care either. We're like a kind of a perfect fit because we both don't care about material stuff like this. I don't get any joy out of that at all. But what I get joy out of is building businesses that actually solve real problems. And I get like that excites me. Like when when someone uses rankability and they see that result for the first time, that excites me. That makes me want to keep working on it. I don't care about getting a car. It doesn't mean anything. And this is why this investment to me, I know we are going to get it back. Okay, I know that for a fact. And we're already starting to get to that point. I just want to show you kind of the trajectory of what's going on here. You can see 2022 we invested about 15 grand. 2023 164,000 and then we peaked at $330,000 in 2024. And this is our personal investment like founder investment into this into this business. And you can see in 2025 it dropped dramatically to $128,000. Now, why is that? Well, number one, we actually the the product actually launched in 2024. We actually started getting customers in March of 2024, I believe. Don't quote me, but I think that's when we we started getting customers. Uh, and then every, you know, as soon as we started getting customer, we started getting revenue into the actual business. So, we're almost at a point where Rankability as a business is starting to actually fund its operations. We're not profitable yet, but we're getting very close. And we're going to be at a point well, you know, when I record a video like this again in maybe 3 or 4 years, uh you'll you'll see that the overall founder investment into this business is going to be zero, right? Because rankability will be funding itself like a like an actual business. We won't need that outside capital out of our own pockets to fund this thing. But right now, that's where we are. Okay, that's where we are. And this is just, you know, for my own my my own amusement, but you'll see like right now in the in the AI search industry, there's all kinds of AI search companies popping up. They're just every day there's one that got funded, you know, $30 million and $7 million and $13 million. It just VCs are just plowing money into these tools. Um, and most of these tools are run by PE, no offense, you know, I'm not going to call anyone out, but they're not run by actual SEOs. are not run by subject matter experts. They're not run by people that have literally been eating, breathing, and sleeping SEO for over a decade. Both Simon and I have, and that's the big difference. They will never I don't like I there's if there's any guarantee I can make, they will never have the level of nuance and understanding of this industry like like we're going to have. Okay? There's some other great tools out there. By the way, I'm not this is not a cast I'm not casting this on all tools, but there's a few out there that they cannot say that. Okay? And so these VC funded software companies get a lot of marketing, free marketing just because they got funding, not because they're actually solving their customers problems, not because their customers are actually happy. Okay, so just very important point to make. And I'm not to say we'll never get funding, but you know, the proof is in the pudding. We we've actually put our own money into this. So, we care a lot about this, okay? This is very serious. We've taken this very very seriously. We're not spending daddy's money to build this business, okay? This is real money. Like, this is a real serious situation, okay? Uh but it is it is quite stressful, okay? It is a lot to build this company, but it's worth every single second. And we're having such a fun time doing this. And we're having such a fun time uh just getting this opportunity to serve uh you know agencies and in-house teams and people that are really serious about getting SEO results. We see people getting results every single day. Um and that's what excites us, right? And we're excited to give uh to give as much value as we can to try to serve, you know, th this industry as far as AI SEO and AI search optimization. So, I just wanted to say, you know, quick a quick thank you. Uh, if you're still watching this video, of course, I know this is quite a lot. Basically dumped my life history on you. Uh, but it's it I I am truly grateful uh to to have run this gotch SEO brand for, you know, 12 years. It's pretty crazy. I would have never thought um at this point that I'd be, you know, moving on to something else, but, you know, it really is just the same stuff, but it's just with a different name. Um, and so I'm I'm I'm just so incredibly grateful uh for everyone that's watched my stuff. And the good news is I can tell you this YouTube channel, nothing's changing. Okay? I'll be publishing another video next week. It'll be probably about uh, you know, AI SEO more than likely. Uh, but I just want to make that clear so that, you know, going forward, uh, I'm all in on rankability. sub. Thank you.