Title: If I Had to Learn SEO From Scratch in 2026, I'd Do This
Video ID: dNXCgJ6ylnU
Published: 2025-09-08T11:15:11Z
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dNXCgJ6ylnU

---

I'm going to show you how I would learn SEO if I was starting today in this AI first world. My approach would be very different than what I did in 2011 when I was just starting out. So, if you're serious about building a career or business in the SEO industry, then watch this entire video. I'm Nathan Gotch and I've made millions of dollars in the SEO industry through services, training, books, and even software. And my SEO systems have helped thousands of businesses get better rankings and more traffic from Google. and now on AI platforms as well, you're in good hands. So, let's jump into step number one, which is to get your hands dirty. The school system does not prepare you for learning fast in the real world. You're probably used to just in case learning, which prioritizes consumption of information without action. My question for you is this. How many books do you think Steph Curry has read about shooting a basketball? Well, the answer is probably none or very little. So, how did he become the best three-point shooter in basketball history? Well, there's no denying he's blessed with raw talent, but he's also religious about his practice and output. During the off season, Steph's requirement is 500 made shots per day. And the point is this. Too many people try to learn SEO by reading, watching, and consuming information. And I obviously love that you're watching one of my videos right now and I greatly appreciate it. But your ability to learn SEO fast is dependent on how much you're doing every day to make progress. And this is not about hard work. It's about taking small actions every day to produce cause and effect. Sometimes the SEO effect is positive, neutral, or even negative. That's good because these results are what create learning. Which brings me to step number two, which is to create a test project. My first website in 2011 was a baseball pitching blog. And while pureformational sites aren't a great option these days because of AI, it's perfectly fine for a test website. But if you're willing to get more technical, I would also consider creating a micro SAS business that solves one very distinct problem. And this is because it'll give you the fastest education on business, marketing, SEO, and sales. And tools like Replet and Lovable allow you to build applications without highlevel coding skills. So once you've decided, it's time for step number three, which is to create a keyword database. Even with AI, keywords, topics, and queries are still fundamental to SEO. And at the end of the day, as long as people are searching for solutions to their problems, there's an SEO opportunity. But before you try to find key words, you first need to understand the five stages of customer awareness. So the key to mastering keyword research for SEO specifically is to understand the five stages of customer awareness. So this is what it traditionally looks like. But I want to show you my own version of this. So traditionally what you see here is, you know, you're going to go from the top of the funnel and you're going to work your way down to the most important queries, the ones actually going to drive revenue. We don't want to do that. What we want to do is we actually want to reverse this and we want to start all of our efforts here at the bottom of the funnel because we're going to build our whole strategy from the bottom of the funnel and then we're going to work our way up. So in essence, what we want to do is we want to target keywords that are very close to a conversion, very close to actually generating real revenue. So let me show you what this actually looks like. So I call this topic domination. It's very simple. You're going to pick a core keyword like this and then you're going to focus on your owned assets and even your rented assets to attack that one topic. So what this looks like is at a very at the you know the initial level of this is we're going to focus on queries that actually have our brand in it. So in the case of rankability, we're going to focus on rankability pricing, rankability content optimizer, rankability score, and so on and so forth. And the idea here is on the rented assets, these are going to be, you know, our YouTube channel or LinkedIn or Tik Tok or whatever it may be. We're looking to drive branded searches, which we know likely are a Google ranking factor, whether direct or indirect. We know they likely influence performance. But what we really want to focus on here in the keyword research process is our specific website. So you should always begin with your branded queries first. These are the queries where people already know who you are and you should always start there. Then we're going to go into product aare. So we're going further up the funnel. And as you can see now they're starting to, you know, they're getting very close to a conversion. They're looking up reviews. They're looking up alternatives. They're looking at your brand verse another competitor. Okay, these are really important keywords they want to be showing up for. And once again, that you know the conversion mechanism that we're going to go for here is like our core conversion objective. Then further up the funnel, now we're at the solution aware. Now, this is where things get a little bit different because you notice that rankability is not actually popping up in these queries. Much broader, but still have that commercial intent. So, these are still very, very important. We still want to be showing up on lists on our own website and of course on any other website that's talking about, you know, these particular topics and these listicles. We need to show up there. It's very important. And then finally, we're at the problem aware. And as you can tell, now it's starting to get a lot more broader. It's starting to get moreformational in nature. And then finally, we're at the unaware, which means we're not even really talking about our core topic at that point. So, if someone's searching about SEO tools, are they interested in content optimization? Possibly. Hard to say. And so, what we want to do is we want to push them deeper into the funnel. So, we want to push them deeper into this problem awareness phase. You can do that via internal linking or we can lead them to another conversion objective that's easier, which would be a free lead magnet, okay, in this case. And then we would do email marketing and that would lead eventually a small percentage of those people would would convert on a free trial, okay? or whatever your conversion objective is. So, this is the way that you want to do. You want to work in reverse. Start with the stuff that has a high probability of generating revenue and then slowly start to expand your keyword footprint. You don't want to start at the top of the funnel because there's just too much that like it's fine for awareness, but it's not actually going to generate revenue. It's important as a, you know, as part of the whole ecosystem, but you should start with the the high priority keywords, which are obviously the ones that are going to help you get a return on investment either for your campaign or for your client's campaign. So, I actually have a little template you can use here for what I call topic domination. Just go ahead and scan this QR code and you'll get free access to it. So, now that you understand the stages, you need to start at the end of the sales cycle and then work in reverse. So let's say you created a micro SAS for a bookmarking app. The first move is to identify your core pillar asset topic. In this case, best bookmark manager would be the focus since it gets around 320 searches per month according to rankability. Now you're going to turn this seed into a fullblown modern SEO content strategy with the intent to dominate this topic everywhere your potential customers are searching. Here's how to do it. So the first thing you want to do to build a hyperfocused cluster that's going to help you build a lot of relevance on your site is to take kind of your seed keyword that's unbranded. So in this case we be looking at best bookmark manager and so you can throw it into hrefs or semrush even rankabil's keyword tool and you can get a good idea of search volume. Now, what I like to do from here though is I like to look at this seed and first I'll go to matching terms and see are there any other variants that we could potentially create more than one page for this seed. So, obviously we're going to have and I'll show you what this looks like, but we're going to have a page specifically for this one singular version of this keyword, which will likely be our commercial or product page. And then we'll also have a listicle that's going to show the best bookmark managers. And I'll show you in a second. But you also see there's other variants in here. We also have Chrome. And as we go down here, we see self-hosted. So these are kind of unique attributes that we could go and build out additional pages to build even more topic support. And then we see Firefox. Okay. So just that alone, we've already got kind of, you know, a few different variants that we could go after. Now, the best thing to do is from here, obviously, you want to focus on these non-branded commercial queries that are kind of in the middle of the funnel, but then go to related terms. And what you'll often see are some of the competitors starting to pop up as well. So an example of this is Raindrop. Okay, this is one of the bookmark managers that is out there. And so what you want to do is you want to start to also target keywords that are directly related to your competitor to try to extract some of that organic traffic from them and and drive it towards you as a viable alternative. So what this looks like in a very simplistic version, this is uh just to give you very you know it make it super simple here but usually the process a lot more comprehensive but this is the idea of what you're trying to achieve which is number one we've got our idea and then we're going to convert that idea into a title. Okay, very simply and so you can see kind of the the core initial concept we have is best bookmark manager and this will be the pillar here and everything is going to build around this one pillar which is the best bookmark managers. Obviously, we're going to place our brand number one. And then what we'll do is we'll internally link that to our our commercial page, which is this page here, right? So, this will be, you know, this might actually have a a pipe. And then it would be, you know, something like this. Okay? So, basically, this is the page where we're going to sell our product, right? We're going to we're going to give the we're going to talk about the benefits and we're going to have testimonials and we're going to actually try to close some people on a free trial in the case of SAS. But it's the same idea no matter the type of business you have. You're going to have that one commercial page that's designed to drive conversions. Now, when we look at this, this is the pillar post because everything from this one pillar we're going to build upon. We're going to build support around this pillar. So these are all supporting assets that get really really granular uh towards the specific browser that we can go after. Then like I mentioned we've got the direct competitor type of content. So we have this kind of review concept here. We've got the versus concept which is a comparison type of asset. We've got once again a listical which is really going to be the alternatives and obviously will be the number one alternative. And then this one is uh kind of a deeper level comparison type of query where you're comparing three different brands in one. So just with this one competitor, we've already created four different assets all with unique intent. And just imagine if you multiplied this across every competitor that you have just for this one really really simple not a super deep topic. We could have at least 100 dedicated blog posts and pages that are going to build support in this just this one cluster of best bookmark manager. So most people do not go deep enough on their topics and they just kind of scratch the surface and then you know bounce onto the next topic. That's a huge mistake. You want to really focus your efforts on one cluster at a time. And then once you feel like you've basically tapped it out, then move on to an adjacent cluster, an adjacent topic that's very, very closely related, but still is going to help kind of lift up that other cluster. So, we want to be very deliberate in the work that we're doing. You don't want to just do random acts of SEO content like blog posts here about this and then a page about this and you're just creating so many disconnections. You want to have really, really tight relevance. And when you do it like this, not only going to build that tight relevance, which is going to help train the algorithms to understand what it's all about, but you're going to get opportunities for more internal links. So all of these relevant posts are going to be linking to each other, and all the relevant content. And let's say you start to drive back links to maybe a couple of those assets. Well, that link equity is going to flow throughout that whole cluster, which is going to lift the whole thing up. So I'm telling you, if you want to get the best results, keep it focused. focus on one topic and do not deviate until you've actually nailed that whole topic. So, even if I give you the core fundamentals of SEO, you're still going to hit roadblocks because each campaign and situation is unique. That brings me to step number four in the SEO learning process, which is just in time learning. Instead of consumption without action, you're going to act, hit a roadblock, seek out a solution for that specific problem, and then keep acting. Simply repeat this process over and over and you'll quickly learn SEO. Now, the question is, what career move should you make once you're relatively confident with your SEO skills? It depends on your life situation and risk tolerance. Let me show you a proven path that's somewhere in the middle on the risk versus reward scale. So, start by landing an in-house SEO job at an agency because it'll expose you to many different campaigns and teach you how to work with a team. then move into being an in-house SEO at a company. This is different because you'll be able to focus on one campaign, but it also adds company dynamics like having to sell SEO initiatives to stakeholders and trying to get buy in. Once again, teaching you new skills. Now, to be fair, I didn't take either of these paths. When I moved to St. Louis in 2013, I applied for every SEO job I could find, and I got one interview and didn't get the job. So, I did what most sane people would do and became an SEO freelancer. Fortunately, within 6 months, I was making over $10,000 per month and ended up making over six figures in profit in my first full year in 2014. But I was single, had no kids, and very little responsibilities. I could take this type of risk and there was very little downside. Not everyone is in that position, but if you have the entrepreneurial itch, you don't have to burn the boats. You can ease your way into it. keep your day job and your primary cash flow source while you build your new revenue stream. If you're interested in this path, get my book, The SEU Entrepreneur. It shows you how to start an SEO business from scratch, and the principles still apply even in this AI first world. So, with that said, you need to weigh the pros and cons of being an SEO employee versus being an SEO entrepreneur. So whether you decide to work in-house or decide to go the SEO entrepreneur route, it's a matter of preference and ultimately a matter of risk tolerance. But I do want to show you the two different options just so you know every single possibility that exists. So what you're looking at here is a chart showing the progression of salary over time based on the you know the next level of position within you know this this field of SEO. If you're going to work purely in-house this is kind of you know the the trajectory that you can go on. So you would start out kind of entry level around $53,000 a year. Then you'd go into SEO specialist that might put you up to 65. SEO manager 83 give or take SEO director 92 or so. And then a global SEO director or could be maybe a VP of SEO type of role. You know, you're you're probably going to cap out between 185,000. There there's some extreme outliers that are making more than 200,000, but that's very very rare. Most people like this is this is the upper level of what you're going to get. So we're talking about many many years to get to this point. Let's say you're just starting out in your 20s. It's going to take you you know 5 to 10 years of dedication to get to this level like this SEO director level. So that's the downside is you know it's going to take a lot of effort a lot of time and then on top of it when you let's say when you do reach the you know top of the mountain in the case of SEO you are going to hit a ceiling you are going to hit a wall it's just inevitable so the only way to continue upward is you would have to transition out of just being SEO and obviously expand into maybe a digital marketing role that has more responsibilities which then obviously with more responsibility typically be you know comes more pay not always but that is the idea. Okay. Now, on the other hand, the SEO entrepreneur route is there's no ceiling. Okay. So, unlike this one where you do have that income ceiling, there is no ceiling when it comes to being an entrepreneur. Zero. Okay. But the the thing is it's really risky compared to just being an employee. Okay? An employee is a much safer path on paper, but keep in mind you can still get laid off. You can obviously still get fired. Uh you can get cut pay cuts. Like there's a lot of things that can happen even in what most people would perceive as a safe type of job. Okay? So there's risk involved in you know each of these options but being an entrepreneur is definitely on the riskier end. Okay. But unlimited upside as far as your income potential. It is uncapped. You could truly make as much as you know as you want you know given given most uh a lot of variables but you there is no ceiling here. Okay. Number two there's no boss. Okay. Okay, so unlike the traditional role, you do you are always going to be reporting to someone. But this is kind of silly because even when you work, let's say, doing client SEO, you don't just have one boss. You could have 10 bosses or even 30 bosses in some cases if you're doing client SEO or you're running an agency. So you have tons of bosses in that case. So, it's a little bit different, but the only difference here is when you're running an agency or you have your own business, you can technically fire your boss, which is really your client. Okay? You could fire them if it's not a good fit. You can't do that in a traditional role. You cannot fire your own boss when you are self or when you're employed at a company. Okay? And then this is the one that no one really talks about. Okay? This is the this is the big reason why, you know, I just I'm a big fan of being an entrepreneur. Obviously, I've been an entrepreneur uh and I've been self-employed since 2013. Okay? So, I've been doing this for over a decade now. Fully self-employed, fully self-funded my life through entrepreneurship. Okay? But it's not the income, it's not the money that makes the biggest difference in my opinion. It's the unlimited compounding growth of skills. And that's one of the biggest areas like when you're working in house. Obviously, you can learn a ton working in house. And I'm not saying you can't, but the thing is when you're running a business and you're and you're responsible for wearing so many different hats, it's impossible not to learn, right? It's impossible to not uh learn all these different skills that then you start to see things very differently cuz you're you're you're learning so many different areas of business. You're not just hyperfocused on one skill set, right? And that creates a lot of a lot of surface area that actually I think you you become much more valuable in the marketplace. So, you're going to have to learn marketing. You're going to have to learn sales. You're going to have to learn how to speak. You're going to have to learn how to close deals. You're going to have to obviously learn SEO. Uh you're going to have to learn how to to actually run a business. You're going to have to learn how to hire people. Like there's so many things you have to do in a business. Um and it act to me it it's unlimited the amount of stuff that you not and not even to mention the different types of businesses that you could potentially get involved in like with your SEO skills. Just me personally, I I've done every single monetization method that exists for SEO. I I've done uh affiliate SEO. I've made money with AdSense. Uh I've made money uh you know doing YouTube SEO. I've made money obviously in the agency and client services. Uh I've made money selling books. I've made money uh doing courses. Uh and now I have a software company. So pretty much every single mechanism you can use to monetize with SEO, I have done it. Um, and each of those mechanisms has taught me new things that the previous one didn't. And it creates this compound effect. So there is no cap to how much uh compounding skills you can build doing entrepreneurship. So obviously I'm very biased and super bullish on being an entrepreneur because it changed my life and obviously I'm going to be much more apt to give that advice, but it does come with risks. It requires a lot of effort. I have worked basically every single day since 2013. Like every day I've worked every day. Like it's it's a lot. Um and it's not for everyone, right? It's not for everyone. Uh but being an employee is not for everyone either. Like that's not for me, right? That's not for me. So to each their own. You pick, you know, you pick what path you want to go. But it is important to know the differences. If you like that kind of steady salarybased situation, then working in house is totally fine. you can make. I mean, making $200,000 a year without having to take on tons of risk, that's a pretty good gig for most people, honestly. But if you're someone who can tolerate a little bit of risk, then entrepreneurship is also something you should at least explore. So, that's how I would learn SEO if I was entering this industry today. There's so much opportunity right now because of AI. And if you're willing to put in the work and learn, you can benefit from the upside. And if you're ready for the next level of SEO and AI search optimization, join us at Gotcha SEO Academy.