Title: What OpenAI's New Report Means for SEO
Video ID: dVIH0NNoMqE
Published: 2025-09-16T17:44:04Z
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dVIH0NNoMqE

---

So, I have some AI search and SEO news for you. ChatGBT just released a brand new paper showing the usage inside of their platform and showing exactly what how users are using ChatGBT on a daily basis. In fact, this is data from over 700 million weekly active users. So, there's a lot of little insights we can pull from this to help us drive more brand awareness inside of Chat GBT and ultimately do AI search optimization. So, a couple things here. Uh, first is 49% of the messages within chat GBT are what are considered asking intent. Okay, so this is going to be sometimes veryformational type of questions, but there's also going to be commercial related questions. I'm going to show you exactly the types of queries that we want to focus on. Informational queries are very dangerous in the context of chat GBT because if chat GBT based on its core training data already knows the answer, it is not going to it's not going to use retrieval and it's not going to go and grab more information to enhance that answer. So meaning it's just going to answer the question without needing any citations. Those are the queries you want to stay away from. Those are the really dangerous ones. The ones we want to focus on are the ones that are much fresher and the and the queries that chat GBT simply cannot respond to in any accurate way without having to go and retrieve answers. Okay, so we want to focus on the questions where retrieval will be used. That is the key. Now here are a couple examples of what would be considered asking intent. Who are the best insert product category for use case and then rank by criteria. Okay, so who are the best SEO content optimization tools for agencies? Rank by price, features, you know, etc. Okay, these types of queries are going to surface brands and these are the queries that we a want to be tracking and b we want our brand to appear in these AI generated responses specifically for these types of queries. Another one is you know what are the best alternatives to brand or compare brand A versus GR brand B and C. Okay, these are the types of queries where we need to be surface. These are the queries that whatever brand we're working on needs to be popping up. You have to be tracking these because if you're not you you can't fix what you're not tracking. Okay, that's the most critical part of all marketing. And this is one area where we can actually track these AI generated responses. Okay, so the second one that they found is that 40% of usage comes from what is considered doing. So most people I talked to are using chat GBT a lot of the time for writing and maybe a little bit of coding, but that doesn't seem to be very uh one of the biggest use cases, but probably writing is one of the core things. Now when I'm I'm there's three different categories here that they've kind of lumped all queries into let's they say three buckets of intent. The asking queries are the most important. Those are the ones we really want to focus on. So, I'll show you an example. If you go into Google Search Console, you can actually run this reject in here. Okay? So, you go into Google Search Console. I'll drop this below the video. Uh, I'll give you some templates that you can just copy. Uh, but go ahead and put this this rejects in here. And then you hit apply. And what this is going to do is going to help us see all of the queries that have this kind of asking based intent that fall into that bucket. Okay. So what I would like to do is see by position and then start to look at the queries where we're not doing a very good job and then we can decide how can we attack these queries on our own website. How can we attack these queries on YouTube? How can we attack these queries on maybe even a LinkedIn pulse article, you know, anywhere where Google like Google or uh any search engine that you know we know is used for retrieval. We want to drive as much visibility on those platforms as possible because we know it's going to influence AI generated response when it goes to retrieve answers. Okay, we know that that is that is universally true. Okay, so you want to go through these and you want to make sure you're tackling every single one of these questions if you can. This doesn't always mean you're going to take one of these and build a brand new asset. That doesn't make a lot of sense because you're going to end up just creating a bunch of thin content. But you can look at these little topics and then go to the page that's, you know, performing well for these at least maybe within the top 100 or so and look for opportunities. Can we kind of squeeze in this topic in this one asset? If not, if it's a totally different topic, then it would warrant maybe, you know, building a dedicated page. So, you got to take it up by case by case basis. But these are just like tons of opportunities that you can go and attack just by using a very simple reject formula. Once again, I'll drop it below the video. Okay, so those are the most important one of those asking based intent. The next are doing. These are a little bit trickier because you're not always going to surface brands right away. Okay, this is why I didn't give it like a full check. It's kind of like halfway because most of these are not going to surface brands. However, this is when the sales journey compression comes into play. Okay, so an example before I jump into that which is uh I need to set up seatbased billing with trials for our SAS. Which platforms support this? Give me three to five options with pricing, page links, and setup docs. Okay, so it's a pretty intense prompt and no one's going to be putting this very likely into chatd without a bunch of questions prior to this. And I'll show you why in a second. Another one example here just let's say in the in the context of ecom. Another example here in the context of local. Okay, but this is really important because most in this this bucket are not going to just start here. These are ending queries. These are ending prompts. Okay, so this is the most important thing to understand about this current situation with chat GBT or a any AI generated type of platform uh that includes perplexity and claude and grock and you you name it. Okay. So before this is pretty much the the standard buyer journey. Okay. And it's pretty erratic going through many different platforms and different stages. And it could take depending if it's B2B versus B T B T B T B T B T B T B T B T B T B TOC. It could take longer if it's B2B, shorter if it's B TOC. So, just depends. But now things are very different where an entire buyer journey can happen in one chat, right? in one chat window in let's say you know in in the cont like anecdotally for me I've purchased in you know within 30 minutes going through one sales journey within one chat right I I started with a problem that I had and ended up at the end where I discovered like okay I guess I need to go and buy this plugin or buy this tool or invest in this software okay so I went through that whole journey in 30 minutes and I got my problem solved very very fast so this is kind of what this would look like in a real life scenario Right. So, we start at problem awareness, which is like, you know, we're about to roll out a SAS product, but I'm not sure what the billing setup should look like. What are the main pricing models other SAS companies use? Okay. So, you're starting very top of the funnel, very problem aware. You know, there's not really any product awareness at this point. Okay? And then we go down deeper. Now, we're starting to get a little more specific, uh, you know, about the the ideal client profile that they go after. And then we're starting to think about uh the specific goals that they're trying to achieve in this context. And then finally they hit a roadblock, right? And when that roadblock is hit within that chat window, um you know like this example, I don't know what tools can actually do this. Which billing platforms are best at handling seatbased billing with trials? Okay. So you see it's a very specific problem that they're trying to solve. And the next logical step here is that chat GBT is likely to recommend some some software products, right? Some some solutions to this problem. And this is the point where the money will be made. Okay, you're not going to make money in these early stages. You're not going to drive brand awareness here, but it's this whole process that's going to lead to the high conversions. And there's a lot of conflicting data about, you know, traffic from uh referral traffic from chat GBT converts better than Google traffic. I don't find that to be that's probably not very accurate because the thing is we're not just concerned about driving referral traffic from chat GBT. While that's great, that would absolutely be amazing. You can track that inside of Google Analytics. Uh that's not actually what the biggest one is. The biggest one is getting your brand covered in that AI generated response. So then now we have brand awareness which then leads to this next stage which is the most important which is branded searches. Okay, this is where the magic happens. The more visibility we have in chat GBT for the queries that actually matter to the business, the more likelihood we have that we're actually going to drive branded searches back to Google. These two platforms, there's now I think a study just came out that uh most users I think it's like 95% of chat GBT users also use Google and vice versa, right? So the like these things are not killing each other. They're actually working together. They're supplementing each other and they're both gonna, you know, probably rise together. I you know this this concept of Google dying or chat GBT dying I don't see that happening really unless some crazy you know huge development comes here soon but at least in the near future the thing that marketers and SEOs need to focus on is getting the brands visible in the AI generated responses and making them get as much coverage as possible for commercial queries with the idea of driving branded searches you have to almost treat it as if it's LinkedIn or X or even YouTube in some context like the goal is we're we're doing marketing okay we're doing marketing and if we do good marketing we drive branded searches and we know that branded searches are much higher probability of conversion than just standard let's say informational queries okay branded searches are very very powerful and they drive really good conversions so the people are a little too focused on trying to track direct conversions from chat GBT when more than likely most conversions are not going to be that direct and in fact that's not really how anyone purchases anything online anyway. Okay. All right. So the final one which is only 11% of the total usage on chatbt is what's considered expressing. Okay. So these are the worst queries for us to target as SEOs or marketers. Okay. Because you basically no chance of getting any brand uh to to be surfaced in that AI generated response. So, an example would be like you role play as a skeptical CMO interviewing me for 15 minutes about rankability. Keep it tough but fair. Okay. Yeah, that's cool, but that's not going to help you know like if you're if you're working with a client, how is this going to help them get more business? It's not. Okay. It's not. All right. So, this is very very important. I would I would dig through that. You know, if you want to you have some some reading, go through this report. But the truth is this is the most like important SEO element of this report is ultimately focusing on you know these queries that matter the most which is doing right this these queries are very important. So this is you know that with the uh buyer compression and the sales journey compression inside one chat window with the intent to drive branded searches and then the same is with you know with these in particular which is the asking intent. These are the most important ones. These are the the queries you should be tracking. These are the queries that you should be trying to uh you want to measure a couple things. Number one, is our brand appearing in these responses for commercial queries specifically. And number two, within that response, where does our brand show up? Okay, so the first one though is like are we actually showing up? That's just a simple zero or one type of equation. It's pretty binary in that way. The other one is more about where do we show up? Okay, those two things matter a lot and that's where the tracking should should come in. Now, some good news about tracking. I you've probably seen there's like a billion, you know, AI search rank tracking tools out there. Um, funny enough, you know, Rankability ranks well for best AI search rank tracking tools cuz we're coming out with our own. Uh, but in the meantime, I have something that's going to be much better than you just going and blowing thousands of dollars on an AI search tracking tool. Okay? I just completed the AI search tracking and analytics certification inside of Gotcha SEO Academy. There's a few different tracking mechanisms that you you know I'm going to be teaching. But the biggest one is I'm going to show you first of all how to track uh brand mentions and rankings within the AI generated responses without needing any paid software. You can actually do this. There is as long as you have a good template and you know how to use Looker Studio, which I show you how to do, uh you can track this. Okay, you can't do it at a at a high scale, right? You can't do it like across a million campaigns, but you can do it pretty decently. And in fact, it's actually more accurate doing the way that I show than using a lot of these tools cuz a lot of the tools are just, you know, API rappers to be totally honest. So, um, so this is much more effective cuz I'm going to show you the logic and the process behind actually setting this up, uh, in Looker Studio and ultimately using Google Analytics, using Google Search Console, using all free software. Okay, so this is a a certification that's going to be within Gotcha SEO Academy. And within Gotcha SEO Academy, you're literally getting everything. you're not just getting this, but you're getting uh all my other training programs, you're getting the community, and you're getting twice a week coaching. So, it's a steal. Um, and then I'm also coming out with the AI search certification. So, if you're interested, I'll have a link below this video. You can apply. We don't accept everyone. Um, but if you're if you're serious about really winning an in AI search, uh, and continuing to do really well just for SEO in general, the good news is, you know, uh, doing good SEO does translate really well to AI search platforms. It's not exactly onetoone like that, but it it is it is very very impactful for influencing these platforms. Um, but this is the most critical part. You have to be able to track it before you can improve it. And so that's why I started with this program first because I want to show you how you can actually go about doing this. So if you're interested, there'll be a link below.