Title: Become a freelance SEO consultant (the smart way)
Video ID: FyQkB8IbsX4
Published: 2025-04-26T10:00:23Z
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FyQkB8IbsX4

---

How do you become a successful freelance SEO consultant? Well, the best thing that you can do is first of all, take baby steps. I think there's this idea that you need to burn the boats and quit your job and just immediately jump right into it. I actually don't recommend that. That's something that I did only because I got fired from my job. And so, I really had no choice except to go all in. And I I don't typically recommend that for most people. If you have a day job, what you should do is start to build up a client base on the side. And eventually once you have replaced your existing income, then it makes sense to go allin. And this is definitely going to take longer and it's it's going to be kind of a grind doing this because you're going to be working outside of your job on your actual side business. But that's the first thing is like figuring out what your exit plan is going to be. Then aside from that, what you want to do to be a successful freelance SEO consultant is in the beginning take whatever you can get. You should be on Upwork. You should be on Fiverr. You should go where people are searching for SEO work, where businesses are actually looking to hire SEO freelancers. That's where you should be. And yes, you're going to work with some pretty rough clients in the beginning, but your number one objective is to build your portfolio as fast as humanly possible. So you want to build that portfolio up because whatever you do in the beginning to build that portfolio, there will be a compound effect of doing that because you're going to be able to leverage that portfolio forever as part of your marketing and your sales process. So once you get some results under your belt, you've got some experience under your belt, the next stage is to start to analyze the businesses that you've been working with and see who you really like to work with. What types of businesses do you like to work with? And then from there, you need to figure out where you're going to niche down. Okay? And so, I would pick like your top three that you enjoy working with and then actually go all in on one of those niches and and become the go-to expert in whatever that niche is. And so, this is this is the key to really going to the next level because it's very very challenging to grow an SEO agency or even a solo SEO agency by trying to service all niches. It's really, really challenging. It will your scalability is almost impossible. But everything gets easier when you pick one niche and you become the go-to expert there because your marketing gets easier, your sales process gets easier, and most importantly, your fulfillment gets easier across the board. Every single area gets better when you get focused in on one really good niche. But that's going to come from a lot of experience. So, hope that helps.