Title: SEO vs GEO vs AEO: What Will Stick?
Video ID: LNOqXYSCtrE
Published: 2025-09-24T05:02:41Z
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LNOqXYSCtrE

---

been very vocal about GEO, AEO, LLMO, whatever acronym of the week that we want to pick that most of this is just buzzwords. So, how should marketers expand their view beyond just is it AEO, GEO, is SEO dead? Right? I think it's all a bunch of BS with these acronyms and it always trickles back to some form of SEO some way, shape, or form, right? So, I guess what is your response to all of this GEO, AEO versus SEO argument? No, I mean I I definitely think there's some people just trying to rebrand things just because it's it like we know just from, you know, copywriting and and general direct response marketing that new things are easier to sell than old things. Um it's just, you know, it from a marketing perspective, it's smart from like when we look under the hood and we look at like actually what's going on. For me, the way I kind of think about it right now is like to get if we're talking about visibility inside of the AI chat platform. So let's say chatd, perplexity, all the good ones. You want to get your brand to be listed in the AI generator response for commercial queries. Okay, that's the that's the that's the dream. Okay. Well, too. Yeah, exactly. And um you know, I think that 80% of what we like it's 80% is just standard best practice SEO stuff that we've always been doing. I I like if you just do do standard SEO, you're going to do pretty well more than likely. So, just to, you know, kind of define standard SEO, I guess to me, it's all about high quality content and trust signals. I think those are the two big buckets right? In fact, we've been testing this a ton where we're literally using our website to influence the AI generated responses significantly. So, I think you should start there. Build, you know, hyperfocused relevant content that uh is more middle of the funnel, bottom of the funnel. I'm not talking top of the funnel stuff. If you want to do the top of the funnel stuff, save that for YouTube. Don't put like don't don't do that on your site because all it's going to do just get it's just going to get ripped by the AI anyway and it's going to be pointless and you're not going to get cited on top of it. So, the stuff that really matters on your site now is going to be middle to bottom of the funnel.