Title: SEO Isn’t Dead, But Search Has Changed Forever
Video ID: p1PaWuTloGo
Published: 2026-04-21T15:05:27Z
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p1PaWuTloGo

---

Hey, so if you've been in the SEO industry for even a single minute, you've probably seen that SEO is dead or SEO is dying. I've been doing SEO for over 15 years and I can tell you I've been through many cycles in this industry and I can tell you that SEO has died at least a couple hundred times. But yet, we're still here, we're still making money. So I'm going to show you proof that SEO is not dead, okay? And a lot of this stuff is really clickbait, all right? Trying to get you to click on their content and get you to engage in their content. reality is the data does not lie. Numbers don't lie, okay? So what we really need to shift our mindset here is not that SEO is dead, it's that the definition of SEO has changed and what we're looking at as far as performance has changed pretty dramatically. So the first thing you need to think about is that SEO, do not define it as search engine optimization. I would define it as search everywhere optimization because we need to be attacking multiple search surfaces, okay? So let me show you some data on this. So this is data directly pulled from our own business just to demonstrate this point. This was literally pulled just today, so this is very current. We're in 2026, April 2026 right now. And ChatGPT, by the way, launched in November 2022. That's how long it's been. And yet, when you look at this data, it would appear that ChatGPT has made almost no progress whatsoever as a pure search engine, which it is not a pure search engine. So this is not a fair comparison, but this is the first part to start because over 95% of our traditional search traffic comes from Google, okay? This is traditional search. This is 10,000 visitors in the last 28 days have come from Google traditional search. I'm not talking about any Google AI products, not AI overviews, Google AI mode, Google Gemini. This is pure 10 blue links traffic coming from that. 10,000, okay? So keep that number in your mind. But then we look at this AI referrals, 500 visitors. 500. So 10,000 versus 500, okay? Now, to be fair, this is not exactly an apples-to-apples comparison, okay? Because the way that you're measuring performance as far as traditional SEO is largely based on standard keyword trackings and then organic traffic. The way you measure performance in AI is different, right? It's not exactly the same. So measuring like on a per traffic basis, it will never compare to traditional search, at least for a long time. But when we look at this, when we just narrow this down into just AI platforms, we see that ChatGPT is quite dominant, okay? 64% of the traffic came from ChatGPT and then the others it's pretty mixed for the most part. And then you can see, once again, there's really no This is why we want to really focus most of our effort on ChatGPT, but also you got to pay attention to these other platforms too because they are growing. Who knows who will be the winner out of this, but as of right now, ChatGPT is the clear the AI referral domination channel right now. So just this data alone proves that SEO is not dead, but we do need to kind of rethink how we're thinking about this whole process and really viewing search as a much broader ecosystem that we're attacking Google and we're attacking these AI platforms as well, okay? Continue to focus on building your standard authority. All the stuff we've been doing for many years, keep doing all of the SEO stuff you've always been doing, but you also need to think about what are the other variables we need to consider to influence the AI platforms. I'll show you in a second one of the biggest variables you need to be thinking about. But the key here is we want to track everything. And this is the part that's really important cuz I think a lot of people are getting really mixed up as far as like how do you actually track all of this? There's just a lot going on. It was much easier when I started back in 2011 when I started doing SEO. All I had to do was just pop my keyword into a rank tracker and I could just track my rankings in Google traditional search. That was super easy, pretty straightforward, and it was just much easier than today. SEO is significantly harder than it was back then. It requires multiple departments working together, multiple divisions working together to get everything to kind of work in unison, okay? So this is what you need to be doing. So the way that I track all of this is using a couple different tools together and then bringing them into one spot. So what I do for the traditional search tracking is I use Rankability and I use what is called the search performance index score. And you can see this is measuring performance across many different search surfaces. Then you integrate Google Search Console into here as well, so you can see your lagging data showing up here as well. And then the data from what I just showed you today directly came from Google Analytics 4. You can see you can segment this data. Rankability segments this data automatically, but you can go into Google Analytics 4 and set up filters so that you can isolate the AI referral traffic, but you can see very clearly right here that Google continues to be just such a dominant player as far as traffic, right? It's just a ton of traffic relative to AI referrals. Now, this is the part that you got to be really careful of because when you're measuring traditional organic search, the metrics are very clear, right? We're going to track keywords, we're going to look at organic traffic data, we're going to see conversions from that data. But when you're tracking AI performance, if you're just looking at traffic, you're not really going to see the full picture, okay? And I'm going to show you why this is. Let's take a look at a particular example, okay? So this is an alternatives-based keyword and you can see the way that I personally do it is I'll track that primary keyword and I want to see how it's doing in traditional search first, okay? So how are we doing traditional search? We go down here and we're looking at a couple of things. Number one, we want to see what is our average position across these three major search engines. And this score is a combination of your visibility plus your position, okay? So in general, you want to be try to be number one across every search engine because we know that AI uses search as a core source of retrieval. So that's the first part. You want to continue to track traditional search rankings. Another thing you want to be tracking, which is a really cool thing here in Rankability, is you can actually track your total search domination, meaning of the ranking results here, which of these do you actually own, okay? So as of right now, our website only owns about one of these. So if I really wanted to dominate this, I could try to occupy as much SERP real estate as I possibly can because the more I can take the more real estate I can take, the more likelihood it is that I'm going to be used as a source of retrieval. I'll show you an example of this. This one here has the brand in the query, so naturally it's going to do a lot better. On search domination, you can see we occupy three different spots here, which is exactly what we want to see. If we go to a more extreme example, if we were to search like Rankability, for example, you would see a lot of domination, right? Because of course, it's our branded query. So one thing I can do here is I can just flag this as an owned asset and now I can see the true search domination for our brand. So looking at this, there's some stuff in here that's not related to what we do. This one is our brand here. This one is not our brand, it's an agency with a similar name. And so now we can go back and look and just identify all of these owned assets, okay? And then we get a true idea of like how much we're really dominating these SERPs. This is what we want to see. So this is what you're looking for. Now, obviously, this is kind of a ridiculous example. This is for our branded query, it's really easy. But I'm saying you want to It's the same idea with non-branded queries as well, okay? So that's the first part. Now we're going to go back over here, we'll go back to the one we were looking at. And we'll Let's actually we'll go to this one here. And what we want to do is go to AI answers, okay? So this is the part where tracking gets very different. We for traditional search we're tracking individual keyword rankings just like we've always done and then we're looking at traffic. But when it comes to AI search performance, if you want to call it AEO or GEO, which is answer engine optimization or generative engine optimization, both of those actually do make a lot of sense just because by definition, you're really tracking what's going on in the AI answer, which is the generative answer if that comes from AI, right? So you're tracking that specifically. You're not tracking blue links, you're tracking an answer. So that's what's different here. So what you can see here is what's going on is in this case, Rankability is going and running queries across all of these major AI platforms, okay? And it's extracting those answers and then seeing if your brand pops up in those answers, right? So we go over here and we can look at ChatGPT and you'll see right here that Rankability is mentioned in this actual answer, okay? This is what we want to see. And sometimes it will not be linked. In fact, most of the time your brand will not be linked in the answer. That is okay because the big value here is that you are being mentioned. And if you're being mentioned, someone might continue to follow up about your brand in that one thread and you can actually run a full sales cycle in one AI thread. In fact, I've done that just anecdotally where I've searched for something in ChatGPT and I ended up buying something just from going through a process in that full thread, right? But how did I end up buying it? I didn't just click on a link and then go to the website. I just did a branded search on Google, right? So it's it's all comes back pretty circular where like you may start on ChatGPT or Clod or Grok or whatever and then end up back on Google and Google will get that attribution as far as the conversion, but the reality is that sales cycle, that journey began on ChatGPT or it began on Clod. Or in some case, maybe even began on one of the AI coding platforms like Replit. For example, I'm always solving things on Replit. I identify a problem and then it tells me I need to go and get a particular tool to fix it. So I'm coming from Replit and going and buying something via Google. Don't worry about traffic is what I'm saying for here. What you need to worry about is your brand being mentioned for the keywords that actually matter for whatever business you're working on. That's it. And we're talking commercial queries, okay? That's what matters. And this is what you want to see. Try to dominate as many of these platforms as possible. And then obviously try to be one of the top recommendations in these answers, right? If we go and look at AI overviews, are we being mentioned very prominently in that answer? And in this case, the answer is very clear. We are, right? This is a good sign. We want to see this, okay? So, those are the first two things you want to track. Traditional search and is our brand mentioned in the AI answers. Next one you want to track is citations, okay? Notice that we separate these out because I view these as completely different services that you have to think about because the mechanisms are slightly different. So, an example here is that to influence the AI answers, you need to be a part of the citation set, okay? That's one of the biggest things you have to do. Now, there's a bunch of other things as well, but this is one of the most important elements, okay? Now, to influence the citation set, to be a part of the citation set, this is going to be no surprise here, doing good SEO on your own website is a good place to start, okay? And you can see here very clearly that we have two dedicated assets to Grok rank tracking. And you can see that it crushes, right? And we absolutely crush it here. But there's a bunch of other pages here where we could possibly get coverage as well, okay? So, an example of this, go ahead and just click this little button here. And what this will do is it will analyze all of these dedicated citations that are popping up. And it will see if you're actually showing up or being mentioned on these pages. And if you're not being mentioned, the next logical step, this is where AI search actually gets actionable, is you want to start to build a plan to reach out to these citations, okay? And really the goal here is to identify the citations that tend to have a lot of coverage across many different platforms. Because if many different AI platforms are using that same exact URLs as a citation, that means that something is right there. And we want to try to get visibility there. So, you can see this is prioritized based on where the most coverage is. So, whatever URLs are being cited the most. So, we see very clearly, and so we see the ones that we do have mentioned. So, we actually have four. Obviously, two of them are us, and then two are the third-party, which is good. So, we got four out of the 29. Not bad, but we could do a lot better than that, right? So, then we go to opportunities, and then I can start to dig into these opportunities. And typically, you're going to look for listicles. Some of these are not going to be good fits cuz these all look like they're transactional pages, but this one here might be one worth exploring. And it looks like, yeah, this could be one maybe that might be worth exploring. Probably not though, cuz it's more informational in nature. So, we'd want to look for ones that there's a very clear opportunity that you could actually go and get brand coverage there, okay? Most of these are competitors, so this isn't going to work as well, but this is what we're going for. And by the way, if you can't get on some of these competitor websites or some of these URLs or it's very hard to get to them, what you can do, and actually funny enough, this is an unlinked mention here. We'll look at Rankability. And you can see Rankability is actually popping up in here, and it's unlinked. It's unlinked brand mention, but the system still caught that. So, even unlinked brand mentions are still good. You should still go after that. But the more advanced method of this is you can see that with Rankability, we continue to just hammer and build more support around this concept of AI tracking and Grok, and we could build more support on our own website. Or, what we could do is we could start to explore some other parasite SEO opportunities. So, I may go and attack these exact topics on LinkedIn, right? I may go and attack these same topics on YouTube and start to really blanket the whole citation set to the point where it just becomes impossible for any for the AI to ignore you, okay? That's really what you want to be doing. This is how you need to be tracking. You have to segment these out because they're all very different. And so, you need to be tracking traditional search. You need to be tracking AI answers, which is my brand actually mentioned across the most important AI platforms, and are we being cited in the citation set? And if we're not cited, is our brand being cited in that citation set? So, hope that helps, thanks.