Title: Will AI agents disrupt SEO?
Video ID: rBtVkfrusY8
Published: 2025-04-24T10:01:32Z
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBtVkfrusY8

---

So, one of the most exciting changes right now to the SEO industry are AI agents. And so, the introduction of large language models was awesome. Chat, GBT, Perplexity, Claude, all these awesome models. And they can do a lot of great stuff, but they really focus on creation. And they're going to create content for you, create code for you, create linkbait for you. It's going to give you all the framework that you need, but you're still responsible to go out there and actually do that work, to actually make it become a reality. But that's about to change. In fact, that's already changing right now with AI agents. So, the key difference here is large language models are more focused on creation while AI agents are more focused on the action to actually produce whatever you've created. So, what I mean by that is instead of you going and doing keyword research yourself, like if you want to do a keyword gap for your competitors and you want to extract all their content ideas and normally you would just go into a tool like Semrush and you would run a keyword gap. Well, now with AI agents, you can actually have the agent go and do that for you. And it requires no effort on your part other than creating the SOP one time and having to refine it slightly if there's any mistakes. And then once that SOP is set up and it's consistently doing what it needs to do, the agent will be able to run that task over and over and over 247 without any breaks. Um, and it's just crazy. So, the way we're going to be doing SEO is permanently changing. Uh, and you see a lot of people talk about SEO being dead. I don't believe in that at all. What I believe is that SEO is rapidly changing and we have to stay up with the times. These this new technology is moving really, really fast. But I do see a future where you're going to be able to run an SEO agency with, you know, just a handful of humans and a significant amount of AI agents who the humans are going to be able to manage and train uh and ultimately do a lot of that really timeconuming, let's call it low value work in many ways. So, I'm going to be sharing a lot more videos coming up here about this change in the SEO industry, but just play around with these agents because I'm telling you right now, they are very early. They uh make a lot of mistakes. They're probably the equivalent of like a below average virtual assistant, but just don't look at it where it is today. Think about where it's going to be on version 10. So, I'm super excited about AI agents, and I'll be sharing a lot more content here very