Title: How to rank in Google's AI overviews 🤔
Video ID: rQ6uMO9nv4w
Published: 2025-04-25T10:01:32Z
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rQ6uMO9nv4w

---

So, how do you rank in Google's AI overviews? Well, no one knows for sure because there isn't like an exact blueprint that you can follow at this point, but there are some variables that are consistent across most of the citations that appear in those AI overviews. Number one is if you're in the top 10, honestly, even as far as back as the top 20, that greatly increases your odds of showing up in the AI overviews. And if you look across most keywords and we've we've studied thousands and thousands of keywords as they've come out and the consistently I'd say about 95% of the results that show in the top two, top three, sometimes even there's like seven citations sometimes in the AI overviews are from websites that are ranking in the top 10, possibly the top 20. So if you want to increase your odds of actually showing up in those AI overviews, it's pretty simple. You just have to do SEO really well. So, nothing has really changed except you just need to be able to rank on the first page. And if you rank on the first page, that's going to greatly increase your odds of showing up there. And truthfully, we found that the higher you rank on the first page, the more likely you are to show up in those AI overviews. So, honestly, not a whole lot has changed. Just focus on doing really good SEO, optimizing your pages to be highly relevant using NLP. You can use a tool like rankability obviously and then focus on the tapping into information gain meaning you need to make sure that your pages are adding some sort of unique value that's different from the top competitors. Regurgitated content does not work super well anymore because Google is trying to combat AI content and they do not want to see just more regurgitated content in their index. So what you need to do is focus on how to differentiate your content. what is a a unique angle that you can take with your content. But don't neglect the relevance. It's relevance first and then uniqueness second. So do that and that will greatly increase your odds of ranking. And then of course take care of all the other important parts, user experience, link building, and ultimately just building a really good