Title: The SEO Blueprint I'd Use in 2026
Video ID: tL_u2cH5RO0
Published: 2025-06-24T10:55:04Z
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tL_u2cH5RO0

---

So today I'm going to build a complete SEO plan for a random local business. And this is the business that I picked. They're personal injury law firm based in Cedar Park, Texas. One of the most important things you can do right now as far as SEO, as we know, the days of just ranking in 10 blue links are completely over. So you know SEO, what you're going to learn in this video is much more than what people think it is. It's basically just digital marketing at this point. So, you know, if you're if you're still considering yourself an SEO at this point, you should hopefully have transitioned to understand that you're more of a much, you know, a much bigger role than just kind of trying to manipulate title tags or trying to write metad descriptions. Like, that's not SEO anymore. A good SEO, someone who's like one of the best in the world, like top 10%, maybe even top 1%, is going to understand all of these different elements really, really well. So, let me kind of walk you through. is the first thing you want to do is you want to start to benchmark where your your particular client is or whatever business you're working on. Okay, that's the first thing you want to do cuz you just want to establish that baseline like how well are we actually showing up. So, what we want to do is look at all the different channels that we could possibly get visibility on. Now, what we're looking at here is this see might seem very intimidating, but I'll kind of walk you through what this looks like. So in essence, what I do is I'm going to go through every single opportunity that exists on Google first. Google is still the dominant player. I don't know how long that's going to last. You know, Chat GBT is the fifth most popular website as of this recording. That it's very likely that ChatGpt could be, you know, maybe number three very, very soon, right? You know, right below Google and YouTube. So, it is entirely possible that Chat GBT could pass up YouTube, but it's that's going to be really really hard. Um, and so, you know, as of right now, Google is still, it is still the dominant place. We need to, we need to keep some of our resources focused there. And so, what I will do is I will just go into Google very simply. And we're just going to look and see what's actually popping up here. Okay. So, we can see just based on these results, there's a lot of things going on. Number one, we've got local service ads, we've got a local pack, we've got our traditional organic results, and we have a people also ask. So already we've got multiple opportunities to actually drive awareness just on the first page of Google alone. So if you were just relying on organic for example, you'd be playing a very dangerous game. Okay. So the the way to be thinking about this is how do we capture as much SER real estate as possible on Google. But just to take it up another notch, you know, Google now in even in incognito, we can see AI mode now pops up. Okay. So there's a lot of different areas where we need to be thinking about optimization. Okay, it's very very important. So in the context of the random business that I picked, you can see that they're doing well in the local pack. They're actually number four in the local pack, but everything else they're pretty much invisible. Okay, so they're not running local service ads. They're not doing search ads. They're not in the AI overview. Um they're not showing they're not showing up in the traditional organic and they're not showing up in the people also ask. So if you think of these as all different opportunities, that means they're missing out on a significant amount of real estate. So you have to be looking at this. So in general, I'd be looking at it basically in two ways. Number one, are they just at least present anywhere here? And if they're not even present, then you don't need to worry about optimization or positioning because there's still a lot of work to be done. But I'd be looking at both of these. So are they present? And then what is their position if they are? Okay. Um, now position is kind of a a weird thing now with large language models, but just in general, you know, are they actually showing up? Okay, now here's the part that gets really important because a lot of these a lot of these variables like AI overviews, organic, um, and then also the Google AI mode, it's going to be based on a lot of external signals that are going to drive that awareness. So, I'll show you an example of this. So, when we look in the local pack, I'll show specifically this keyword in particular. So, we'll run this one. and then we'll go to the AI mode and you'll see that the the businesses that pop up usually are those that are doing pretty well in the local pack. Okay, just in general. So that's just what I found at least locally, right? Just locally, the businesses that do well in the local pack tend to do well in Google's AI mode locally. Okay, so it's pretty simple. If you want to get better visibility in AI mode, if you're a local business, then your Google business profile becomes the focus. And you know, honestly, a lot of this stuff isn't new. We should have been doing this already, but we can see that it is very, very important. Okay, so based on this though, we can see the particular business we picked, they're doing well. They're showing up in local pack and they're showing up in the AI mode. Once again, number four in the local pack. When I ran my other shirt search earlier, they were number three. Now they're a little bit lower, but the point is they're there because of their Google business profile, because of their performance in the local back. That seems to be one of the biggest variables. Okay. Now, next thing you want to do is when you're looking at Google, go back to the traditional search results. And you'll see in the AI overview once again, um, you know, a lot of citations here. The particular business not showing up here. We should be looking at these citations and thinking about how do we actually show up here. Now, a lot of these citations are pulled directly from the traditional organic results. So, what you want to be thinking about is is taking these results. So, like super lawyers, for example, opening it up and seeing are we actually on this directory? Because all of the large language models, all the search traditional search engine crawlers are crawling these and then they're extracting that information and that's being used to train the large language models. So the more citations that you have, the more brand mentions that you have on trusted websites in that industry, the better you're probably going to perform. So Google in essence right here is kind of giving you the blueprint for what that would look like. So we've got, you know, super lawyers, we've got Justia, we've got, you know, all kinds of things. We've got Reddit, we've got Yelp, all of these platforms. You have to be here. Like it's literally critical. You have to be on these platforms. If you're not on these platforms, you basically have no chance. And I'll show you kind of how all these pieces fit together here in a second. But in general, just look at the search results and look for the opportunities where you can actually be listed. Obviously, you're not going to get a link on your competitor's website, but you can see these. We just just in this one just on the first page, we've got five opportunities where we can get a brand mention, right? A solid brand mention on five critical opportunities on the first page of Google. Okay. So then another thing you want to be looking at too on Google is Google is sometimes kind of reveals its cards to you. So right now we see that the AI mode is first in this tab in this you know in the navigation. What does that tell us? That tells us that Google is going to prioritize that function right it's already a prioritizing it in the navigation over the traditional search results. So it we we could you know it is pretty easy to deduce that it's very important to Google. Therefore, it should be important to us. Okay? But the same thing is for the other tabs as well. Don't just neglect these other ones like short videos. You know, it's being prioritized. It's number three as far as importance, at least in this navigation. Okay? So, this is like there's it's totally a blue ocean in this regard as far as driving awareness with short videos. And if you look at a lot of these videos, they're not highly developed. They're not super well structured and they're not built around the particular keyword they want to go after. So this is an opportunity and you can see even the types of platforms that Google is prioritizing in these shorts. It's Instagram, it's Facebook, it's Tik Tok, it's YouTube. So you know exactly where to publish these assets to drive awareness in Google specifically. So Google's giving you the blueprint. You just have to go and actually create that content for that specific medium, for that specific content type. Okay. So now going through here once again, uh the particular business we're working on, no videos, no short videos, nothing. Okay. You're going to do the same thing. Go to YouTube, go to LinkedIn, go to Tik Tok, look at these platforms to see, do are they showing up at all? Now, keep in mind, I'm doing this all for this one keyword phrase. That's the idea. Okay? So I'm I'm specifically looking at this one, but this would be a process you'd go through basically for all your really critical keywords. Okay? But in general, we need to be thinking about search everywhere. We need to be optimizing across multiple platforms because the thing is, as I'll be showing in a second, all of that visibility, all that brand awareness funnels into the large language models. And then the large language models use all that data to synthesize it. And then they present here are the best personal injury lawyers in Cedar Park. Now, it makes a lot of sense when we look at this that this particular business is not showing up in the large language models because they're missing all of the key places that they need to be, right? And and if you're not in the key places, you're not going to show up in the large language models. Okay? So, we'll keep going through this uh real quickly. Chat GBT once again, go into incognito window and run these searches in uh in chat GBT. I would do them all. I would do chatbt, uh, Grock, I would do perplexity, I would do claude, you could do deepseek. At a certain point, there's some redundancy, but in general, if you do all of them, you're going to get a good idea of what are these large language models pulling from. If we understand what they're pulling from, then we should be there, okay? And they tell us, you just go right in here, okay? We we run that search and go right down to the citations. And then we're going to see what are the exact citations that they're using to collect the to build this response. And if we know the exact citations they're using, then we need to be on those citations. So you can see here, that's why what I'm doing in this, you know, this example here is I'm I'm linking out to all of the different citations where we need to show up. Okay? And every time I find a new one, I just talk about I just mention where it's from. So like you know for example on Google AO and uh Better Business Bureau and this Cedar Park Chamber were not showing up on Google but it was showing up on chat GBT. So that allows me to identify a really unique citation that maybe a lot of people are not going to find. Okay. And so once again funny enough they actually are listed there. But in general that's what I'm looking for. I'm looking for the gaps in citations so then we can get a really a much broader view of all the opportunities that exist. Okay. And so just repeat that process for Perplexity and Google Gemini. Um I'd also recommend running searches on Bing. So you can see here I ran searches on Bing. I ran searches on Grock. Um I ran searches uh specifically on Duck.Go as well. And I was able to find additional citation opportunities. Okay. So in general, this is what you should be doing now. And like I mentioned, the SEO is not easy. Okay. This is I'm not going to ever claim that this is an easy process here. This is very intense. You got to be in a lot of places. And it's honestly, if if I were to redefine what SEO really is these days, it's just marketing. Okay? That's all we're doing. We're finding all the places that we should be as a brand. And that's what we should be doing. Okay? And we're looking for the gaps. And if you want to crush it as a local business or a national business, you need to be everywhere. You need to be fighting many, many battles. That's just the nature of marketing online now. Okay? Um, I wish I could tell you just do this one channel that you just can't do that. You have to be doing multiple things to win now with large language models. Um, so anyway, this is this is what you have to do at the beginning of a campaign. Benchmark everything because then in like 3 months from now or 6 months from now, you can go back, do this again, and hopefully you've made some improvements. Right? That's the idea. Now, real quickly, just to show you, this will kind of help you visualize what this looks like. Okay? So what we're doing is we're hitting all these little building blocks. Okay? All these little building blocks are what's going to drive trust and the positive signals that we need into the large language models. As of right now, you can't like go into perplexity and optimize per se. You can't go into chat GBT and optimize a particular profile or a piece of content. Like you can't optimize in there. You can only optimize for what signals they are using for you to show up in the platforms. Uh Google's AI mode is somewhat of an exception because it does use the Google business profile. So it is using an asset from Google. I would suspect at some point that Shack GBT might allow businesses to create profiles in their platform. Maybe Perplexity does the same thing. So we'll see. Time will tell. But in general, we know that if you're not showing up here, it's more of a deficit somewhere in one of these areas. Okay? So, traditional search, if you're not doing well in traditional search, you basically have no chance of showing up in the large language models. So, the standard SEO stuff that we do is all going to be applicable to, you know, to to getting better performance. Okay? Communities showing up there. uh getting in all the directories as I already mentioned uh your rented assets. You have to start creating content on your most important assets. This will vary depending on the business for personal injury law firm obviously YouTube, LinkedIn at bare minimum um Google business profile obviously and then you can maybe add a couple their channels but don't don't do unnecessary channels if they don't align well with the business. Okay. And then the most important one I would argue is probably the links and mentions. Hands down, this is the most important part because at the end of the day, directories, um, although they're very valuable, they're very critical for training large language models, um, anyone can sign up for a directory. It it there's no like editorial standards. You just sign up and that's it. So there's not a there's not a huge barrier to entry. This, on the other hand, there's a very big barrier to entry to get linked, you know, to get cited here. Um, when you go and actually get links on these platforms, you're going to start actually getting the signals that you want, you know, getting on the listicles, being a guest contributor on the relevant websites, getting interviewed, being on niche websites, so on and so forth, even getting influencers to talk specifically about your brand. Okay, so this is the most critical part. If you can do this right, that's going to be that's going to do a lot of the heavy lifting for you because it affects so many other things. It affects your traditional search over here. it affects that. Um, it affects the large language models. It affects your website, right? So, everything, it's kind of the the most critical piece of this whole equation. Okay? And then your website. We'll talk more about that here in a second, but it's pretty simple these days, and it's it nothing has really changed as far as having a good website, which is highly crawable, highly indexable, has good site architecture, meaning the internal links are well set up. It's incredibly fast loading. it uses schema markup and like that's the technical side. If you get that right like pretty well, you're going to be doing just fine. Um, and then the content which we'll talk about here in a second. Um, and then some bonus points like if you can you know use your personal brand to get some citations, this can be highly beneficial as well. So the point is this all of this working together is what drives brand visibility in these platforms. So once again, if you're not showing up in these platforms, don't try to do anything weird in these platforms. Just look at all this stuff and and identify those gaps. Okay? It's as simple as that. Now, couple other things. Chat GBT like you have to be using some sort of large language model to help you in this process. Now, I'll tell you, I'll show you a quick example just with my own business. Okay? So, rankability. All right? So, we just did a big site redesign here and this is like pure like the purest form of crawability and indexibility. It's schema markup like the whole thing. Okay? Like we went really really hard even accessibility like we even optimized for accessibility. It's like the most optimized you can be basically not necessarily like keyword rich but more like from a technical perspective. Okay. And so one of the things you want to be thinking about is proper schema markup across all your pages and take it very very seriously. Um because I do believe it it certainly I don't know how much it's influencing the the large language models yet but I think it's just one of those things like you might as well like it doesn't hurt you. You might as well make it very uh you know very easy to understand. So I'll show you an example of this. So like for uh rankability we've added schema to all of the important pages on the site. So on the homepage you'll see this for example. This is the detailed Chrome extension by the way and you can go and see the schema right here. But like we have our organizational schema and it's very very comprehensive. Okay. Then we go to like the pricing page. We've got we've got different schema specifically for the pricing page as well. Okay. And so on and so forth. You even have schema on our contact page. Okay. Go to the contact page. Uh we've got schema on the contact page. Okay. Pretty extreme. Like I mentioned, this is optimized to the tea. But that's the point, right? That's the point. And even going to the next level, we actually have a a free asset we just built for this like, you know, data about the LMS.ext uh adoption. We even put uh schema on this page too, right? You can see it here. Okay, so with data set schema. So the reason I'm telling you this is because this is just a it's a no-brainer. like we should just be doing this automatically because it does not require any technical skills anymore. You don't have to be a technical developer coding guru to be able to do this. Uh you could just go into chat GBT and have it do it for you. Like look how stupidly simple this prompt is. Uh create some standard schema markup for I didn't even spell I didn't like didn't even proper grammar. Just mark up this lawyer and then it goes and just builds out like perfect schema basically. Um, and of course it needs to be reviewed. Need to run it through the schema validator and all that stuff. But in general, it's doing most of the work for you. You just got to go and fill it in and you're good to go. Okay? So there's just no excuse. Like we can do this stuff so fast. Just do it. Okay. Now the next thing I want to talk about is on the content side. So obviously when we look at this site, it's not really built for conversions. I'm not going to get deep into conversion rate optimization here because it it just needs to it needs a full site redesign, a full restructuring. Um, and it's small, like small stuff like the phone number is not clickable, so someone can't even call on mobile and it's just not built for conversions. Okay? And and that's a that's a serious problem. Um, and this would personally like if this was a campaign I was working on, the first thing I would do would be just a full site redesign to make it conversion focused. Um, that's the easiest thing to do because that's going to give you a lot of bang for your buck and it's a lead domino, right? Because if you redesign your site to make it conversion focused, number one, you're going to get more conversions with the existing traffic that you have. Number two, if you do it the right way, it's going to be faster. It's going to better user experience and that indirectly affects probably your performance, you know, across uh a lot of these platforms that we're trying to rank on, okay? Or we're trying to get visibility on. Um, so aside from that, the other thing I want to show is in the local pack before we move on, if you look at the local pack, this is why examining like each thing needs to be optimized because when we look at this and we'll look at the particular example, um, look at your top competitors and just like model what they're doing. So the top three competitors, they're all located in the specific city that they're going after. That makes a lot of sense. Cedar Park, Texas. But more importantly, they have the appropriate category. So, personal injury attorney, that's the right category for this keyword. And you can see our example here. They have attorney referral service. Maybe that's what they are. Um, I don't know. I don't have the context here. But if they want to rank for personal injury lawyer, all they would have to do is just switch this switch this uh category and they might get a lift. Like they might, you know, maybe be able to pass one person. not likely because they have such a review gap, but in general, it's certainly going to help a lot more. Okay. Um, so sometimes simple fixes can be quite valuable in that way. All right, so all right, so let's talk about the final thing here. Um, we want to ultimately think about the content as well. So I'll show you in chat GBT, you should just have like a running thread for the, you know, the campaign that you're working on. But basically what I did is, you know, create topic clusters for, you know, a particular personal injury alert in this location. And I put all of the topics in here. Now, where did I get these? To no surprise, rankability. Okay, so just run this through rankability. We're going to run that exact keyword through in the content optimizer. And you can see I ran their particular um content through here. You know, this isn't going to work, right? It's just not going to it's not going to perform well. Here's here's the thing. No matter what happens with all the platforms and all the changes are going on in SEO, there's one thing that I would be willing to bet a lot of money on will never change ever. It would like and this is consistent across Google and YouTube and insert whatever platform where people are doing stuff. Relevance is the most important thing. Hands down. It will never be replaced because relevance is what matters to people. When you go on YouTube, you want to see videos that are relevant to you. when you go to Google, you want to see relevant results. Relevance is always going to be important. So with that in mind, when we create content, we have to create relevant content. Okay? So like with the homepage here, if they're going after, you know, a personal injury lawyer in Cedar Park, Texas, we're not even talking about it, right? And so we have to talk about the topics that we're trying to rank on. And I know it seems pretty simple for most people who've done SEO for a long time, but in general, it's really, really critical. And this is why the score is so low here because it's based on relevance. But if we look at the competitors, we can see this just, you know, it's very obvious, right? We just search Cedar Park. Everyone is optimized, right? You're not going to find anyone who's, you know, in the top 30 that isn't optimized. So if you even want to have any chance, just being optimized is like just the bare minimum to get, you know, to get in the door at least. Um, so what I would do is a couple things. Number one, go through each commercial page and optimize it appropriately. You don't need to go super crazy, but at least get the basics in order. Put the keyword in the most important spots, which is, you know, the title tag, metadescription, H1, and um, you know, something in the first sentence. That's just like basics. Then look at the topics here. Make sure you're covering a lot of these topics on the page itself. Okay. Um, one thing that really helps is not to think about these as like, oh, these are key words and I need to like inject them in. I actually view these as like gaps in the business. Okay? Like if I'm a personal injury lawyer, I need to be talking about motorcycle accidents. I need to be talking about medical expenses. I need to be talking about uh pedestrian accidents and so on and so forth. These are gaps that if I'm not addressing them, I'm essentially telling Google and other platforms that I don't I'm not like an expert on this, right? That's essentially what that's the those are the signals we're sending off to the algorithms. We don't want that. We want them to say, "Okay, it's hitting on all the entities that I expect, all the topics that I expect. That's good." Okay, that's what we're trying to do. Okay, so you want to do this on on a page-by- page basis. But here's the cool part, and this is what I do often is I take these topics and I use them to build my topic map, my site map, my uh clusters. Okay? And once again, chat GBT is beautiful for this. You just I just go right up here. I copy these by relevance and I paste them in. Okay, so first thing it will do is it will just put these into categories. Okay, so it's just putting all these topics into categories. These are not necessarily pages you're going to build out, but the put them into the appropriate categories. Okay, then from there, now once you got the structure, now we're going to start to look at like how are we actually going to build out these pages. So basically what you would expect for a personal injury. If you worked in personal injury, you know this is pretty standard stuff, but this gives you a really solid site map to work with based on what we know to be highly relevant to that core topic that we initially searched which is personal injury uh specifically in that city. Okay. So this is what we would do to build out the whole entire website. And every single new page that we would build, let's say it was uh car accident lawyer in Cedar Park, Texas, we go into Rankability, we'd do a content optimizer. We would build a page based on topics for that one individual topic. And then we would rinse and repeat for all of those. Okay. Um and of course, you know, now with Rankability, we have an AI content creator that makes it stupidly easy. So, you just run in here and um when you click optimizer, it will ask you if you want to write it with AI. then you can use the prompt window and it's freaking awesome. We've been ranking a lot of content with it. In fact, I'm afraid to admit this, but uh some of our AI content is actually performing our human written content uh quite a bit. And this is something that's I don't know, I have mixed feelings about it, but that's just what's been happening. So, um but anyway, this is what we do. Okay? And you want to be as comprehensive as possible, and it's that simple. So, you're just going to build those out. Um, and then once you've built all your commercial pages, then you start thinking about, okay, what are someformational assets we can build? Okay, so um, so on the local level, linkbait is your friend. Like build linkbait, build statistics, build tools. It's easier than ever. Okay, I'll just show you a quick example from Rankability specifically on on our actual website. I've been doing this recently um, and using Replet. So, you know, no co well, I don't want to say it's no code. You still got to know a little bit of coding, but in general, you can build out like beautiful assets now with with these tools. And like so on Rankability, um I'll show you, you know, real quickly when I build this this LMS.ext generator. Go over here. Fully functional uh tool that I built, free tool. Go over here. We'll load the sample in. And boom, you've you can build this out yourself. Um you can build a, you know, this this text file. And it's just a very simple tool, right? Nothing crazy. simple tool that can be um built with Replet in particular. And then just to layer on top of it, I actually built out an adoption research report too. Once again, this whole I so the way this works is I built um with Replet. I built software inside of Replet that does the crawling. Okay, so it does the crawling. It looks at the top top 10,000 websites and then sees how many have adopted this particular um text file. Okay. And then I had Replet build this page, too. So, anyone can do this now. I mean, it's not easy, by the way. I don't want to make it seem like this is easy. It's still pretty difficult. Um, it requires a lot of work and there's a lot of mistakes and it's, you know, by far not perfect at all. However, if you are willing to kind of work through it and understand it, you start to see how it all works and the the power that anyone can have now to build out some really cool stuff um is is pretty amazing honestly and I think any business can do this now. Uh it's just a matter of who's willing to do it and at the end of the day that I guess that's how a business always is anyway. So that's what I would do for this particular business. build out the site map, redesign the whole site, uh focus on conversions, and start to build out these these linkable assets. Um, and then of course, like I mentioned, making sure we're filling in all these gaps, making sure we're present everywhere. We need to be present everywhere. If you want to perform long-term in any industry going forward, this is what you must do. Is it going to be easy? Definitely not. Um, but for the businesses that are willing to do this stuff, they're going to be the ones that benefit.