Title: Super easy SEO keyword research technique
Video ID: W7D-gxwzs3U
Published: 2025-04-21T14:59:27Z
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W7D-gxwzs3U

---

So, how do you find good keyword opportunities for SEO? Well, there's a million tools you can use out there, but I want to show you one technique you can use today that's super easy, but extremely powerful. Let me show you. So, just go and get your free trial of Rankability and then go to the content optimizer and enter a keyword. So, you can see here I entered new SEO tools. And then you're going to go over to the right and look over at this section here. So these keywords are all the keywords that the top competitors are using for that particular keyword. And so what you can see here is you want to go ahead and target all of these keywords in your content to rank for that one specific keyword. And you want to go ahead and build it in this content optimizer. But what you can also do is look at these keywords and topics and realize that these are all highly relevant to that main topic. So, we'd want to go ahead and build a piece of content specifically for link building or more specifically new link building tools because the original query was new SEO tools. So, we just swap out SEO for link building knowing that it's highly relevant. We could do this again for competitor analysis. We could do it again for user experience. So, we could go ahead and start creating all these different pieces of content that are going to fill in this cluster. And so instead of just going after this broader topic of new SEO tools, which we should, this will be the pillar post, we want to go ahead and build those supporting assets for new link building to tools, new competitor analysis tools, new user experience tools, new social media tools, and you get the point. So you can usually you can use these key words that are that are tapping into the power of NLP, which is really just a subset of artificial intelligence. And these are all of the topics that the your top competitors are using. So you need to fill in these gaps. And if you fill in these gaps, you're going to ultimately build the right relevance on your website. And that will eventually lead to organic search traffic. And of course the main thing that we all care about which is more revenue.