Title: Stop Wasting Money on AI SEO Detectors
Video ID: xEwSv7ThLi8
Published: 2025-09-18T12:10:35Z
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xEwSv7ThLi8

---

So, let me just start by saying that you do not need to use AI detection tools for SEO. And I have overwhelming evidence that you can use AI safely to not only rank but maintain those rankings in Google. But not only that, the AI content itself is very influential in the AI platforms as well. And I will show you proof of this, but I just want to show you this example because it's pretty funny overall. And I have nothing against originality. I know the founder. It's a they're a great company, but I'm I'm speaking in purely in terms of SEO effectiveness and whether you can use AI. Now, let me just start by saying just using, you know, AI slop, which is just, you know, creating using AI to generate something very fast and slapping on your website. That's incredibly dangerous. I would never recommend that. But using AI at the beginning is totally okay. and then you bring a human in in that process. So this is an example here where originality ironically uh you know their content is coming back as AI written content. Now funny enough even for this keyword here uh you know scale nut review you can see they're actually ranking on page two with their AI content. Okay. So, um, and this is just a very small anecdotal example, but I just want to show you that, uh, you know, even what would be considered pretty basic AI content isn't even getting penalized or anything of that nature because at the end of the day, it's not just about the content. It's also about the backlink profile and and the authority of that website. If you have a brand new website and you just start slamming in AI content on that site, it's probably not going to do very well. But when you have a website that has link authority and trust, you can get away with more. That is just the nature of SEO. Okay. So, I want to show you something that Rankability in particular to be totally transparent is all AI content. I mean, every single post and page on this website began with AI. Okay? Every single one. the inputs that go into it are unique and the basis that it's built from is 100% unique, but the actual words, the copywriting is AI. Okay, so this is an example here of this post that's doing incredibly well. When you look up, you know, AI search rank tracking tools, you'll see uh the funny thing is that rankability actually pops up in the AI overview. You can see it's ranking here in the AI overview. Uh it's also ranking in the traditional. Uh you can also run this actually through run the same query through Grock and you'll see we're popping up as a citation and we're even popping up in the AI generated response. Now the funniest part about this is that the rankability AI analyzer isn't even available to the public yet. So uh so we're able to you know I'm just proving this in real time that you can influence these AI platforms quite easily. Okay, quite easily. Even if you don't even have a product that people are even using yet. just because I'm uh ranking incredibly well in the traditional that is a way when they when these platforms go to retrieve I'm going to be able to influence that response. Okay. Uh and the more you compound that the better it's going to be. The more results you get on the first page the better it's going to be. Okay. So funny enough uh when I run when I run this one through uh originality it actually comes back as likely original. Now why is that? Why does this post that is AI content, why is it coming back as likely original? Well, number one, I don't know because it's AI, so I don't know why it's coming back. I guess the tool is, you know, maybe it's a a false reading, but but the point is is like there's a lot of human edits that still go into this content. Okay, so it begins the the uh the seed at which this content is built is all human. Then we use AI to create the initial draft. Then a human comes in. It might be me, might be my uh one of my team members and they come in and clean it up. Okay? And then it goes live on the site and then it gets designed and it looks good and it looks readable and it does the job that it's supposed to for that keyword. Okay? That is the idea. And at the end of the day, the purpose of creating any asset on your website is to simply fulfill the intent to give the searcher what they want. And whether you use AI or you use a human, it doesn't make a difference. As long as it's relevant, as long as it is serving the searcher, serving the user, it is doing the job that it is supposed to. Okay? Um, and so this is really, really important. And I'm telling you, you know, I I haven't I haven't said this, but I have not used uh any AI detection tools for content in probably 6 to 8 months at this point. I don't even run any content through it because if it comes back as AI, I don't care because that's not that is not the thing that determines whether it will succeed or not. Okay? What determines whether content succeeds or not is number one, is it relevant? Okay? Is it relevant? Number two, is it relevant to your subject matter expertise on that website? Uh, number three, does it have topic support? Are we creating additional assets? Like for example, you'll notice here on this asset, every single asset links to a dedicated review page. So, and these review pages also rank because a rising tide lifts all ships. So, all of these content assets together raise up together. That cluster raises together. So if one asset gets a link, the whole cluster raises because there's so much internal link coverage. Okay. So when you look up Aerops review, you see us ranking. Okay. Now once again, uh you know, is this some sort of spectacular Stephen King level piece of content? No. It's AI written content. This is once again AI written content, but it's really welldeveloped AI written content. Okay? So it's not just taking it and slapping it on your site. Okay? So that is the key. Um but the the main takeaway here is you you know just you don't need to use these tools. You do not need to invest in these tools. I think originality is good for other reasons like if teachers want to confirm that their students aren't using AI content or you know whatever that may be. Okay that's cool. But for the specific purpose of SEO you do not need to run your content through these. What you need to do is focus on creating really relevant content that is unique based on this one keyword and it is adding unique insights. Uh and that's where the seed begins. Like the seeds that you put into your prompt to generate the content that's what makes it unique. Um and then number three is building support around that that one idea that one topic to lift up that cluster. And then finally, the most important thing that you must do is you have to acquire backlinks. You have to continually acquire backlinks over time. It is so critical. Rankability, for example, has a DR55. When we started, it had basically a zero. So, we've grown it to a DR55 in the context of hrefs, you know, that third party metric. But the point is, it has authority because we're acquiring links at the same time. So, we're not just building content, we're also acquiring links. You want to have those things growing together at the same speed. So, hope that helps.